DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

(U) Sitting in the 500's Chair

FROM:
NSOC Senior Operations Officer
Run Date: 11/07/2003

 

§\

(S//SI) Where might the Director Central Intelligence, George
Tenet, call to get the latest information on happenings in the
world? NSOC, of course. Who answers the phone in NSOC? I do. I
am a Senior Operations Officer or SOO. The S00 is the Director

NSA's time—sensitive representative. Because the Director can't be 1.
on the ops floor, the S00 acts on his behalf determining the

priority of actions and making critical time—sensitive decisions. As 2.
exciting and responsibility—laden as this position is, I can honestly 3.

say the best part of this job is the chance to know so much of what
is going on at NSA and the extended enterprise — because being a
S00 is not a SID job, it is an Agency job. 4

(U//FOUO) During the 10 months that I have served in this 5

capacity, there have been several tense moments when the lives of

American citizens as well as warfighters were in danger. Decisions 6

made by the S00 impact the outcome of those situations. So,

strong decision—making capabilities and the ability to communicate 7'

effectively are musts.

(S//SI) As routine as it is, "pass down", at the beginning of each
shift, is critical to the continuity of operations. If one hasn't
properly prepared one's "relief" there could be serious time lapses
while the on—duty SOO figures out what is happening and why,
impacting the timeliness of the decision making process. Other
critical activities include:

0 Each morning, collect information for the State of the Enterprise
(i.e. anything affecting the use of resources, people, ongoing ops
in any directorate), which is delivered to DIRNSA

0 Write scripts for the SOO's portion of 15 Minutes

0 Prepare notes for Dr. Cambone, USD (1)

o Fridays meet with A&P; to alert SOO's to situations that might
flare up over the weekend.

0 On any day be prepared for CRITICs, NOIWONs, or JCS
exercises.**

0 Direct non—time sensitive actions to appropriate staff
organizations.

0 Wednesday listen in on the Campaign update

0 Twice weekly standup with DIR, DDIR, SID and IAD Leadership
and Associate Directorate Leadership, the chance to share with the
entire Agency.

0 Deal with zillions of phone calls ranging from crank to critical.

0 "Entertain" visitors such as Fox News' Tony Snow.

(U//FOUO) There are many advantages to this position. The
primary one is that when your 8—hour shift is up you can go home,
comfortable and assured that someone else has taken the "con"
and is doing the job as well or better than you. There is no need to
hang around for an extra 2 or 3 hours to make sure something
gets taken to closure. The second advantage that comes to mind is
the camaraderie. A bond like no other develops between co—

  

\\\\
3\\\§ SERIES:

(U) A Day in the Life of...

 

. Data . w Manager:

5‘

' Fan" .

    

Sitting in the SOO's
Chair

. You Can‘t K5252 ; the

 

GRSOC Anai"st

 

