DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

(U) Mathematician: An Insider's View

FROM: *
Diagnosis an Exploitation Support (S31153)
Run Date: 09/04/2003

 

a

(U//FOUO) What comes to mind when someone tells you he is a
mathematician? Word problems? High school teacher? Graphing
calculators? Pocket protectors? White boards filled with mile long
equations? Slide rules, even? While those thoughts may be
appropriate when characterizing some mathematicians, here in SID 1.
there is another dimension to the picture.

\\\\
3\\\§ SERIES:
(U) A Day in the Life of...

(U//FOUO) To really clear up that mental picture, you have to know 3
that the words mathematician, cryptanalyst, and '
cryptomathematician are used synonymously in the field of

Diagnosis. I'm a mathematician and that is my field. 4

 

. Data . w Manager:
The Dat' Fair“ '8
5. Mathematician: An
Insider's View
MEI-X Lin. uim‘r

      

(C//SI) Diagnosis is the study of cipher, enciphering key, or
cryptovariables (initial key settings) in an attempt to determine the
cryptographic algorithms from which they were generated. I work
on the Transnational (Target) Integrated Diagnosis Focus Team.
The team is made up of twelve mathematicians/cryptanalysts. Our
task is to perform diagnosis on indigenous cryptographic systems
and simultaneously improve the health of cryptanalytic diagnosis.

         

(C//SI) During the course of a normal day I run cryptanalytic
routines on UNIX desktop workstations, supercomputers, and
special—purpose devices using available software tools. The routines
employ standard cryptanalytic tests which search for patterns and
non—random properties in data. If I devise a test for which no
available tools exist, then I will write software to perform the test.
If I detect a significant statistical property in data, I will
immediately seek, expect, and receive help from team members.

GRSOC Arizai"st

 

(U//FOUO) The team collaborates on diagnosis problems. It is
important for me to document my test results — failures as well as
successes — in our internal project news groups. It is also important
for me to read the postings made by others on our news groups.
The team discusses recent developments, data models, ideas, and
future direction during our daily (i) team meetings.

(C//SI) On one hand, cryptanalysis can be frustrating. It is not a
"do—it—yourself" endeavor. Cryptanalysts realize that the
importance of achieving a successful diagnosis far exceeds the
associated personal achievement. On the other hand, diagnosing a
cryptographic system can prove to be a very rewarding experience.
Achieving success is neither instantaneous nor deterministic. A
successful diagnosis may evolve over the course of months or
perhaps years. The diagnostic process may be undertaken by new
cryptanalysts and it may be revisited. Sometimes taking a short
step away from a problem leads to the best step forward that a
mathematician will take.

"(U//FOU0) SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet

