DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

(U//FOU0) Data Flow Manager: The Data Fairy?

FROM: — and
Unknown
Run Date: 08/20/2003

 

§\

(U//FOUO) Data flow in, data flow out — somehow it reaches my

desk. How does it get to my desk every day? Is there really a data
fairy — the urban legend of the data flow career field? YES!!! What
data flow managers do is ofttimes perceived as magic by creating

\\\\
3\\\§ SERIES:
(U) A Day in the Life of...

order out of chaos and untangling the mysteries and complexities 1.
of delivering SIGINT to the customers. There are many data flow

managers in SID. We reside in many areas, but CSRC (the 2.
Collection Strategies and Requirements Center) has the bulk of this 3.

critical career field. Ourjob entails so many aspects, its hard to
mention them all, but these data flow managers perform miracles

 

 
   

and feats of magic every day. 4. Data Flow Manager:
' 7

(C) The SID data flow manager (DFM) is someone who is well 5 The Datifiigi Ar-

versed in many areas and is customer—oriented to ensure that the ' View ' '

customer/analyst has collected, processed and selected data 6. ‘

available for analysis and reporting, whatever kind of analysis is

required, regardless of data type. When do you contact a DFM? 7

What role does the DFM play in SIGINT delivery? The DFM is '

involved daily with: 8.

0 Ensuring that targeted/selected intercept is delivered to
you, 24/7;

0 Monitoring data flows to direct intercept appropriately;

0 Establishing and testing new data paths, formats and
processing capabilities;

I Discovering and resolving data corruption problems;

0 Interfacing with Second and Third Party Partners to receive
data for NSA analysts;

o Briefing end—to—end data flow capabilities/threads to various
customers, internal and external;

0 Troubleshooting reasons for data loss and/or data surge;
and,

0 Ensuring that legal requirements are satisfied regarding the
processing and storage of traffic.

GRSOC Anai'st

 

(U//FOUO) The daily jobs are diverse, as are the people in these
positions, throughout the SID. Backgrounds of DFM's vary from
computers, to cryptanalysis, collection, analysis, and
telecommunications. Many skills are required to be successful —
after all, not only does a DFM understand data, they comprehend
all the processing that is required to ensure that the collected
signal is successfully converted to data and intelligence. The DFM is
involved in all aspects of data flow — assisting in the development
aspects, current flow management and even archive retrievals. And
of course documenting all actions for posterity as well as Mission
Assurance!

(C) However, the most important job a SID Data Flow Manager has
is interacting with our customers. We are here to ensure current

mission data coming into our processors, flows in a timely manner
without corruption. We are here to establish new or enhanced data

