DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS

TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

RX W (U) The CrYPtO-Linguistic Association (CLA)
a

Unknown

Run Date: 05/16/2003
(U//FOUO) Created in 1965 by NSA's Hall of Honor recipient Dr.
Sydney Jaffe, the Crypto—Linguistic Association (CLA) is the only
NSA—based learned organization that supports the continuing
development and advancement of Agency language analysts, and
engages its members in language—related activities. These
activities include a speaker series, an annual banquet with a
nationally recognized speaker, an ever—growing foreign film library,
a soon—to—be lending library of foreign "books on tape", and a
foreign language film festival. This year's festival included films in
Arabic and French, Chinese, Hebrew, Hindi/Punjabi, Japanese,
Korean, Portuguese, Serbo—Croatian, and Spanish.

 

(U//FOUO) Presentations in our speaker series have featured topics
of interest driven by our members. These include Compensation
Reform for Language Analysts, Preparing Resumes, Tips on Taking
PQE's, the New Defense Language Proficiency Test (DLPT V) as a
replacement for the PQE I, and the new Language Analyst
Professional Health Program. CLA presents two annual awards: the
prestigious Sydney Jaffe Award for civilians and the CAPT Joseph
Rochefort Award for military personnel. These awards honor
language professionals whose outstanding mission
accomplishments reflect the tradition of leadership, ingenuity and
scholarship exemplified by Dr. Jaffe and CAPT Rochefort.

(U//FOUO) CLA partners with the NSA/CSS Language Analysis Skill
Community through a formal Cooperative Research and
Development Agreement in order to engage and involve as many
language analysts in as many relevant activities as possible. CLA
partners annually in the fall with the NSA/CSS Senior Language
Authority to sponsor Language Week. The goal of Language Week
is to highlight the importance of cryptologic language work, to
familiarize non—language professionals with the language world,
and to enable sharing and exchange among language analysts.
Last year's theme was "One Year After 9/11: How Language
Analysis Work Has Changed". Highlights included a kick—off town
meeting with DIRNSA, SID Director, and Director Analysis &
Production, an overview of national—level language needs, language
initiatives from the perspective of the Intelligence Community, a
session on "Getting to Level—3/3", a luncheon with the Director of
the Klingon Institute, daily one—hour mini—language seminars and
technology demos, and a large—scale book swap.

(U) We enthusiastically welcome language analysts who would like
to become a member of the 200—strong CLA. This is a chance to
enhance your language skills while networking with your skill
community peers. Last but not least, it's fun! Please see our web
page at "go cla"and contact one of our board of directors for
further information—— we'd be happy to hear from you!

\\\\
3\\\§ SERIES:
(U) NSA's Learned
Organizations

 

2. the KRYPTOS Society
3. The Crypto—Linguistic
Association (CLA)

= ‘t'on

    

