DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

(U) Introducing Carl Johnson as Assistant Deputy Director for
Customer Relationships
FROM: Carl Johnson
(Dateline 5 June)
Run Date: 06/26/2003
(U//FOUO) I am honored, humbled, and pleased to have been
 SERIES: 
selected as the new Assistant Deputy Director for Customer
(U) Getting to Know the
Relationships. 
 the newly named Deputy Director for
SID Leadership Team
Customer Relationships, is currently completing the Foreign Service
Institute (FSI) Senior Seminar. We expect her to officially come onboard in mid-July. In the meantime, I have been simultaneously
1.  Coming Soon:
learning all I can, and as quickly as I can, about the Customer
Getting to Know the
Relationships Directorate (CRD) and have been representing CRD's
SID Leadership Team
interests and equities as the Acting Deputy Director for Customer
2.  Introducing Jim
Relationships.
Allen, Incoming
Deputy Director for
(U//FOUO) By way of introduction, my background falls entirely
Analysis and
within operations. I started my career working Russia but have
Production
spent the bulk of my time working China and Korea. My most
3.  Jack Israel, A&P;'s
recent position was as Chief of the Analysis and Production, China
Senior Technical
& Korea Product Line (S2B). In the former Directorate of
Leader
Operations (DO) Asia and Pacific organization (B Group), I served
4.  Introducing Carl
as the B Group Executive Officer and in NSOC as a B (Group)
Johnson as Assistant
Senior Group Coordinator (BSGC). I also led the B Group Customer
Deputy Director for
Relations Division of the Staff. Along the way, I attended the Air
Customer
War College and Marine Corps Command and Staff College.
Relationships
5.  Introduction to 
(U//FOUO) Since 19 May, my first full day on the job in CRD, I've
 Customer
moved my office and established an office staff; and by the end of
Relationships
June, I'll have toured the CRD spaces and met the workforce. I've
Director
also attended the recent SID Leadership off-sites. These off-sites
have been invaluable for all of us, whether new to SID Leadership
or not. In this short period of time, we have not only gotten to
know each other on a personal basis but have also established the
basic precepts for making continual improvements in how we "take
care of business." Reaching this point of mutual understanding and
agreement would have taken several months of sandwiching
disjointed meetings between daily operational fire fighting. Whew all this in less than a month on the job!
(U//FOUO) I view CRD as the flash point for bringing the
customers (along with all their diverse needs and missions)
together with the SIGINT System (along with all its bureaucracies
and transformation growing pains) to create SIGINT successes for
the nation. Accomplishing this is a tricky business and seldom as
straightforward as much of the work done in the rest of SID. In
saying this, I'm not talking about the technical complexity of the
work. Instead, I'm talking about the difficulty of establishing and
maintaining the processes that effectively bring people together at
many levels - personally, organizationally, and technically - in an
ever-changing environment.
(U//FOUO) The team approach-- within CRD, throughout SID, and
indeed across the entire Intelligence Community-- is the only way
to go. Only through teaming and collaboration will we achieve
high-level successes across the board instead of uneven pockets of

success, failure, and mediocrity. I encourage everyone to enjoy,
relax, and celebrate! Our jobs are hard but we must appreciate,
respect, and celebrate each other and our successes. We want an
atmosphere that promotes creative thinking and risk taking
together with responsibility and accountability. We also need the
wisdom to grow our future through responsible delegation of
authority throughout the entire workforce.
(U//FOUO) Finally, I truly appreciate the warm welcome and
outstanding support I've already received during my short tenure
in CRD. I'm really looking forward to the exciting times ahead and
to working with each of you to produce the SIGINT successes that
will help ensure our nation's security, freedoms, and way of life.

"(U//FOUO) SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet
without the consent of S0121 (DL sid comms)."

DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL
DERIVED FROM: NSA/CSSM 1-52, DATED 08 JAN 2007 DECLASSIFY ON: 20320108


