DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

(U) NSA Linguists 'Panning for Gold'

FROM:
Spanish Linguist
Run Date: 09/24/2003

 

§\

(TS//SI) To really appreciate what a linguist does on a daily basis,

vw
\\\\ .
consider these scenarios: §“ SERIES'

(U) A Day in the Life of...
o a translation says that "A bomb is about to explode and

lives may be at stake!"; or 1
0 we see the first—ever reflection of a previously unknown '
militia; or 2
o a location appearing in traffic isn't on a map. 3:

In all of these situations, linguistic skills were key to identifying
what was really going on.

 

4. {Data . w Manager:
- .3

' Fan" .

     
  
   

(TS//SI) The "bomb" turned out to be a water "pump"; the "newly

discovered militia" that caused such a stir had been disbanded 5- -.

decades before, after achieving its country's independence; and "mm

the "unknown location" was a curse word and not a place—name. 6- NSA F'ngU'StS
'PannIng for Gold'

(S//SI) As the previous examples demonstrate, it is critical that 7- Plant) {if ACtiGﬁ cm

  

   

intercept undergo expert language analysis prior to being reported. the A “0” T9? "
Several steps are part of this process, each suited to linguists of 8- ‘

certain skill levels. Initially, incoming intercept is "scanned" by

linguists searching for reportable or for database information on 9-

new or existing targets. When information of interest is detected,

reporters are alerted immediately and the full text, a gist, or a 10- ’

translation of the item in question may be generated.

(C) Next, the text's accuracy is checked by a senior linguist with GRSOC Arizai"9t
keen knowledge of the target's language and slang, of its culture,

and of any events affecting the situation. Only after this "quality

control" process is done is the "polished" intercept passed on to

the reporters. They then run it through a similar process of writing,

checking and verification, not only with senior reporters, but also

with the linguists who worked with the original items. With skilled

and dedicated linguists present, such seemingly toilsome process

can be completed within a relatively short time, if necessary.

 

In

(C) On a typical day, an NSA linguist wil scan" anywhere from
dozens to hundreds of items of intercept searching for information
to pass on. Most of the time the intercept is unproductive;
nevertheless linguists keep "panning for gold" until they find it in
the form of actionable intelligence information. Then the true value
of a linguist becomes evident. To paraphrase one of our colleagues
who began his article in this series by stating that "Life as we know
it will end if...", well, life as we know it will not end without linguists
at NSA, but timely and accurate reporting most definitely will.

"(U//FOU0) SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet
without the consent of 50121 (Di. ski comma; )."

 

