DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

(U) ICAP Call for Applications

   

FROM: NSA ICAP Program Manager
Unknown
Run Date: 04/07/2003

(U) The Intelligence Community Assignment Program (ICAP) is the formal, inter—agency
rotational assignment program. It is designed to increase the breadth and depth of an
individual's experience by providing a wider understanding of IC missions and functions; bolster
IC coordination; and contribute to the development of our future IC leadership. For more
information on this program and endorsement guidelines, you can visit the ICAP website .

(U//FOUO) Please note: All ICAP application packages must be unclassified, and require
Classification Advisory Officer (CAO) review and approval before going through the endorsement
process. No classified application packages will be accepted. A list of CAOs may be found at:

(U) ELIGIBILITY REQUIREM ENTS:

(U) ICAP is open to civilian employees in the IC at GS/GG—12 through SES levels. They will
compete for ICAP assignments in levels from GG—13 through SES.

(U) APPLICATION PACKAGE REQUIREMENTS:

(U) On—line applications cannot be accepted due to endorsement and classification review
requirements.

a. Complete the resume form provided on the resume web page.

E. App ications must Ee unc assi!ie! an! a!!ress tEe speci!ic Enowledge, skills, abilities

(KSA), and qualifications listed on the vacancy. (The Internal Staffing Resume may be
used as long as it is unclassified, identifies the ICAP vacancy number, and addresses the
KSAs and qualifications.)

c. Complete the Staff Processing Form (SPF) for management endorsement/non—
endorsement and classification review. Attach unclassified resume and copy of vacancy to
SPF. SPF should include:

— Purpose (describe ICAP position, ICAP vacancy number, and intent of SPF);

— Impact on Current Organization: (identify your past experience, current
position, why you are qualified for the ICAP position, and more importantly how
NSA will benefit from supporting this assignment);

— Candidate Endorsement (statement that management concurs with the
application and understands that upon selection, candidate remains on parent
organization billet for the duration of the tour); and

— Position Number (identify the position number).

d. Print hardcopy of the application and SPF. All applications must be unclassified, must
be reviewed and approved by a CAO, and have concurrence up through the office level.

(U//FOUO) Forward the completed package to the respective SID point of contact listed below:

51 - 0:35 1, 2c111,

52 - OPSl, 1C187,

s3 - , 0:35 1, 1N037,

Other SID Sta Organizations - , opsze, 234024-

(U) Applications must be received by the appropriate SID POC, no later than 30 April 2003. NO

