DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

(U) Making Customer Feedback Work for Everyone
FROM:
Acting Chief, Customer Gateway
Run Date: 04/24/2003

(U//FOUO) This 5-day series, "When Meeting Customer Needs
 SERIES: 
Means Defending the Nation", has described the Customer
(U) Customer Relations
Relationships Directorate's (CRD) new Information Needs process
as well as its new customers and new dissemination vehicles. These
new activities are the result of building on the success of 50 years
1.  When Meeting
of SIGINT products and services. Today, our vision is providing the
Customer Needs
right information to the right customer at the right time--within
Means Defending the
their information space--completely focused on our customers'
Nation
successful outcomes.
2.  Information Needs
Management: Careful
(U//FOUO) Toward that end, we are embracing processes and
Planning Aids SIGINT
technology that will make available the intended outcomes of
Response to Iraq
customer Information Needs, customer feedback, observed
War
customer behavior and preferences, outright customer complaints
3.  Dynamic Methods of
and their resolution across the SIGINT enterprise at the touch of a
Interaction with New
button. We have been developing the business processes for this
and Existing
technology for the past 18 months and are now ready to prototype
Customers
the technology that will lead us to trending and analysis of
4.  A Perspective on the
customer feedback and behavior. We expect this to result in
NSA/ USUN
improved one-to-one customer relationships that benefit many
Partnership
customers across the board.
5.  Making Customer
Feedback Work for
(U//FOUO) In order to manage complex customers who have
Everyone
multiple demands, CRD has built a structure to underpin the Senior
Executive Account Manager (SEAM) /Account Manager (AM)
program. That structure is the Customer Service Steering Group
(CSSG). Its charter is to ensure that customer issues are not
dropped before resolution and that resolution for one customer
translates into resolution for all customers with similar issues. The
CSSG is co-chaired by the Deputy Director for Customer
Relationships and the SEAM Program Manager.
(U//FOUO) The CSSG conducts mini-customer assessments every
month based on issues that have "bubbled up" from Account
Managers, NSA Representatives, SIGINT National Intelligence
Officers (SINIOs) and others who meet to review accounts. The
CSSG is composed of the Signals Intelligence Directorate's primary
"movers and shakers" who can personally intervene to resolve
policy and resource issues. The results of the CSSG are reported
monthly to the SID Executive Leadership Board. The Director's
staff has also expressed interest in the results of this effort,
particularly since the CSSG sessions include National Cryptologic
Representatives (NCRs).
(U//FOUO) The core of NSA's customer relationships is
understanding and meeting our customers' Information Needs.
Through hard work and partnering with elements of the Extended
Enterprise, the Signals Intelligence Directorate has enjoyed some
success with its customer interactions, but there remains much
work to be done to further this advance. We will rise to the
challenge to change with our customers, anticipate their needs, and

collaborate with them on the way ahead.
(U//FOUO) We hope this series has been informative and has
prompted some suggestions for us. Please contact
Customer Gateway Chief of Staff, S11,
, 
@nsa,
with your input. We'll be waiting to hear from you.

"(U//FOUO) SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet
without the consent of S0121 (DL sid comms)."

DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL
DERIVED FROM: NSA/CSSM 1-52, DATED 08 JAN 2007 DECLASSIFY ON: 20320108


