DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

(S//SI) Post-war Iraq Plan
FROM: Iraq Issue Managers
Unknown
Run Date: 04/11/2003

(TS//SI) At a time when much of the workforce is focused on enabling a successful outcome for
coalition forces in Iraq, a small team of experts is developing the post-war Iraq plan. As complex
and demanding as the combat environment will be, the transition to peace; the elimination of
Iraq's ability to threaten the U.S. and its allies; and the restoration of a civil government will
likely be the longest and potentially most demanding engagement in this campaign. This period,
known as Phase IV in formal planning documents, will present a host of new challenges and
opportunities for the cryptologic system. Although Phase IV was viewed as formally beginning
when major combat operations end, our interaction with CENTCOM, Pentagon and State
Department planners indicates that elements of Phase IV are already underway.
(TS//SI) In Phase IV we are confronted with a multitude of challenges. They include:
Sustaining force protection;
Maintaining domestic security;
Monitoring humanitarian programs;
Watching for efforts to undermine the nascent Iraqi government;
Delivering a comprehensive perspective on regional views and reactions;
Uncovering Iraqi war criminals;
Tracking the disposition of weapons and materiel no longer under Iraqi military control
We will execute our mission in an environment complicated by much broader international
participation than what we experienced in the war. We will face demands for sharing
communications security technology, intelligence information and resources in a unique multinational environment.
(TS//SI) Our team has already established contact with officials who will lead the transition
efforts in Phase IV. Developing an early understanding of the customer requirements for Phase
IV and establishing a relationship with those customers will allow us to affect the necessary
planning to optimize our posture and meet demands as they emerge. The sacrifice and cost that
will bring us to the end of the war must be honored by a commitment to ensure that Phase IV
sees a successful realization of long-term objectives, underpinned by solid cryptologic support.

"(U//FOUO) SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet
without the consent of S0121 (DL sid_comms)."

DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL
DERIVED FROM: NSA/CSSM 1-52, DATED 08 JAN 2007 DECLASSIFY ON: 20320108


