DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

(U) NSA Linguists 'Panning for Gold'
FROM:
Spanish Linguist
Run Date: 09/24/2003

(TS//SI) To really appreciate what a linguist does on a daily basis,
consider these scenarios:
a translation says that "A bomb is about to explode and
lives may be at stake!"; or
we see the first-ever reflection of a previously unknown
militia; or
a location appearing in traffic isn't on a map.
In all of these situations, linguistic skills were key to identifying
what was really going on.
(TS//SI) The "bomb" turned out to be a water "pump"; the "newly
discovered militia" that caused such a stir had been disbanded
decades before, after achieving its country's independence; and
the "unknown location" was a curse word and not a place-name.
(S//SI) As the previous examples demonstrate, it is critical that
intercept undergo expert language analysis prior to being reported.
Several steps are part of this process, each suited to linguists of
certain skill levels. Initially, incoming intercept is "scanned" by
linguists searching for reportable or for database information on
new or existing targets. When information of interest is detected,
reporters are alerted immediately and the full text, a gist, or a
translation of the item in question may be generated.
(C) Next, the text's accuracy is checked by a senior linguist with
keen knowledge of the target's language and slang, of its culture,
and of any events affecting the situation. Only after this "quality
control" process is done is the "polished" intercept passed on to
the reporters. They then run it through a similar process of writing,
checking and verification, not only with senior reporters, but also
with the linguists who worked with the original items. With skilled
and dedicated linguists present, such seemingly toilsome process
can be completed within a relatively short time, if necessary.

 SERIES: 
(U) A Day in the Life of...
1.  Office Manager:
Jack-of-All-Trades
2.  The Life of An Exec
3.  Working as a Policy
Analyst: One
Person's Perspective
4.  Data Flow Manager:
The Data Fairy?
5.  Mathematician: An
Insider's View
6.  NSA Linguists
'Panning for Gold'
7.  Plenty of Action on
the Action Team
8.  On The Collection
(Officer's) Plate
9.  Sitting in the SOO's
Chair
10.  You Can't Keep the
NSC Waiting!.. A Day
in the Life of a
GRSOC Analyst

(C) On a typical day, an NSA linguist will "scan" anywhere from
dozens to hundreds of items of intercept searching for information
to pass on. Most of the time the intercept is unproductive;
nevertheless linguists keep "panning for gold" until they find it in
the form of actionable intelligence information. Then the true value
of a linguist becomes evident. To paraphrase one of our colleagues
who began his article in this series by stating that "Life as we know
it will end if...", well, life as we know it will not end without linguists
at NSA, but timely and accurate reporting most definitely will.

"(U//FOUO) SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet
without the consent of S0121 (DL sid comms)."

DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL
DERIVED FROM: NSA/CSSM 1-52, DATED 08 JAN 2007 DECLASSIFY ON: 20320108


