DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

\ I W (U) SIGINT Development: A Network of Discovery Networks

FROM: SIGINT Communications

v V Unknown
V a?

Run Date: 06/11/2003
(S//SI) SIGINT Development (SIGDEV) is the set of multidisciplinary analytic and discovery
activities performed to anticipate, discover and/or enhance exploitation of current and emerging
foreign communications and non—communications systems, enabling NSA/CSS to satisfy
intelligence needs. An iterative process, it is an element of all of ourjobs, which underpins the
maintenance of our technical health, responsiveness, and ensures the continuing success of the
SIGINT system.

12/

 

(U//FOUO) Organizationally, SIGDEV Strategy and Governance (SSG) provides strategic
direction and oversight of SIGDEV initiatives and activities throughout the enterprise, while the
three centers —— ”fa-“Wet Anaivsis Center (TAC), Network Analysis Center (NAC), and Tarazget
Technolor \ Trends Center (T'I'I'C) —— develop tools and techniques and trends information that
enable SID to know and own the target and its communications.

 

     

(U//FOUO) The SIGDEV mission extends well beyond the corporate elements. If the SIGINT
Directorate's SIGINT authorities govern your work role, then SIGDEV is probably an element of
yourjob, and you are part of this growing network of discovery networks. To be successful,
SIGDEV leverages the skills, talents and expertise of the individual people, and capitalizes on
the capabilities of our international SIGDEV partners as well as industry and academia. The
SIGDEV community is transforming SIGINT by teaming to forge new alliances across the
corporation, the nation and the world to meet the challenges of understanding and exploiting
today's complex networks and to more fully serve our national security mission.

(S//SI) In the past few months alone, the SIGDEV community has worked together to:

0 Stand up the Iraq Terrorism Develobment Center — a collaborative partnership that
includes the Office of Counterterrorism (CT), Geospatial Exploitation Office (GEO), Office
of Middle East North Africa (MENA), the Collection Requirements and Strategies Center
(CSRC), the Meade Operations Center (MOC), and the Army Technical Control and
Analysis Element (ATCAE), and which draws on expertise throughout the SIGDEV
Community. The ITDC develops leads on terrorists and former regime targets in Iraq with
a goal of helping NSA/CSS increase intelligence production against these targets and to
assist CENTCOM in its operational planning.

0 Assume operational responsibility for the activities of the Meade <2) aerations Center
(MOC).

   

0 Accept a significant role in filling gaps identified this fall at the SIGINT Site Commanders
Overationai Review .

 

0 Sponsor a i-Eiazih-Powered Cordiess Phone conference in October that attracted nearly 500
participants from around the world.

0 Expand the remit of the Joint International Topics Cell (JINTAC) from a bilateral
agreement supporting counter terrorism, to a Five Eyes collaborative effort covering
additional transnational problems: counterproliferation and international crime and
narcotics.

0 Develop three new Communities of Practice: SIGINT Reporting, Complex Systems
Analysis, and Filtering and Selection on the SIGDEV Learninr Portal: expanding 24/7
access to authoritative information on SIGDEV policies, tools, techniques and evolving
technologies.

   

