DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

(U) Office Manager: Jack-of-All-Trades
FROM: SIGINT Communications
Unknown
Run Date: 06/10/2003

(U) A good office manager can make a whole office function better. That's what I remind myself
as I come to work every day. Our actions help keep the operational wheels spinning, in ways
that may be invisible to the workforce at large... but if we did our job poorly, the effects would
be very noticeable.
(U) We play many roles. We keep supervisors' calendars, arrange travel, handle visitor
requests, correspondence, timesheets, action tracking, deliver mail, take care of the office
equipment, budgeting, logistics and space, etc. We are often asked to serve as the OSHA
representative, CWF rep and the records person.
(U) Beyond this, Office Managers make an equally important - but even more subtle contribution, by helping to keep morale in an office high. When we greet people as they enter
the room, a friendly attitude can give all visitors a more positive feeling. Often people look to us
to keep them informed about what's going on. Office Managers also are a manager's eyes and
ears: we can keep them aware of the concerns that the workforce has on a given issue. Our
relationship with the managers is a partnership. And although it's not one of our main duties, we
sometimes help arrange morale-building functions, to improve relationships and strengthen
communication.
(U) What does it take to be an office manager? We used to be called Secretaries, then Office
Assistants, and now Office Managers - our expectations have greatly increased. The job requires
many traits: communications skills, tact, flexibility, self-starter, the ability to work
independently, and negotiating skills, to name just a few! Being a "people person" is of
paramount importance. One must also be able to multi-task; we are often pulled in several
directions, and we must be able to switch from one action to another and back very quickly.
Networking is another key skill. I often contact people if I haven't heard from them in a while - I
think it's good to keep the channels of communication open.
(U) What's the best aspect of the job? I like the contact with people, for one. I also like the fact
that the job is challenging, ever-changing, and fast-paced. I am always learning something new!
I also enjoy assisting my coworkers and generating a solution or answer. In a conference room
one day, someone asked my manager if a certain seat at the "conference table" (where the
other managers were sitting) was reserved. "Yes," he said, "it's reserved for my Office Manager,
!" It's nice to be respected like that.
(U) The hard part of the job is that sometimes people don't fully appreciate our capabilities and
take advantage of them. Office Managers are problem-solvers by profession who can handle
very complex tasks; I believe we are capable of taking on even more demanding duties that will
put our skills to the best use. In dealing with these issues, I have found it very helpful to have
mentors. I periodically meet with three senior personnel who "know the ropes." I have learned
much from them, and owe them my gratitude for helping me succeed here at the Agency.

"(U//FOUO) SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet
without the consent of S0121 (DL sid comms)."

DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL
DERIVED FROM: NSA/CSSM 1-52, DATED 08 JAN 2007 DECLASSIFY ON: 20320108


