DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

(U) SID's Interactions with Congress: Budget Jargon and RFIs

FROM: SIGINT Communications
Unknown
Run Date: 05/29/2003

 

§\

. . _ . _ “W
(U) Today Is part 2 In our 3 part series on SID and Congress. 3\\\§ SERIES:

(U) Budget Jargon (U) SID and Congress

(U//FOUO) As with everything else, the budget process has its own
vocabulary. Here are a few terms you may hear:

 

0 Fence : When NSA funding is fenced, it means we cannot

spend those dollars until we satisfy certain requirements 2- SID'S Interactions

levied on us by Congress. Fences are associated with With COHQVESS:
Congressional Directed Actions (CDAs). BUdQEt Jargon and
o With/Without Prejudice : When a cut is taken "with RFIS

SID‘S Interact?

    

prejudice", it means that NSA must take the cut from a
specified project/program. If a cut is taken "without
prejudice", we have the option of funding that
program/project at the level we requested and taking that
cut from elsewhere in the budget.

0 A not A : Appropriated not Authorized. This occurs when
the Appropriators provide funding for programs, but the
Authorizers do not give NSA the authority to spend it.

o Hollow Authority : This occurs when the Authorizers give
NSA the authority to spend funds, however, the
Appropriators do not provide us the with the dollars.

a Congressional Member/Staffer : The "member" is the
senator or congressman. The "staffer" is just that——one of
his staff. The staffers are led by a "staff director". Sensitive
classified information is sometimes shared only with the
staff director and members of Congress——not with the
staffers—— to limit distribution as much as possible.

(U) Where Are We in This Budget Process Now?

(U//FOUO) Right now, the SSCI has just completed its mark up,
while the other three committees are still working on theirs. SID LA
has just completed many briefings related to the CBJB, to provide
clarification or additional detail for the congressional staffers. Most
of the congressional Requests for Information (RFIs) or briefings
are centered on:

o SID support to Operation Iraqi Freedom;

0 Data—sharing among Intelligence Community elements
(allowing analysts from other agencies access to raw
SIGINT data); and

o TRAILBLAZER.

(U//FOUO) The House Appropriations Committee Survey and
Investigations (HAC S&I;) is also investigating metrics for SIGINT
collection programs. This is essentially a cost/benefit analysis of
the various Expenditure Centers (ECs) for SIGINT collectors and
enablers.

(U) Which Congressional Staffers Do We Usually Deal With?

