DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

(U) 24-hours in Iraq
FROM: SIGINT Communications
Unknown
Run Date: 06/24/2003

(S//SI) Now that the situation in Iraq has entered the reconstruction phase-- Phase IV-- SIGINT
support to the campaign has shifted accordingly. As SID's Post-war Iraq Plan anticipated, one of
the many challenges we face is providing SIGINT support for force protection.
(S) We all know from press reporting that the situation in Iraq is still extremely dangerous.
However, the scope of hostilities is greater than many may realize-- incidents occur regularly
that fall below the press's reporting threshold. The below activity summary will give you an idea
of what happens during the course of a random day (14 June) in Iraq. This may seem to be a
large number of incidents, but this is actually representative of an average day-- and since
there were no U.S. fatalities, it could be considered a "good" day:
(S) The following events occured on 14 June in Iraq:
A retransmission site for the 101st Air Assault Division was fired on by an unknown
number of personnel. They returned fire and broke contact. No injuries.
A 1st Armored Division patrol in Baghdad received fire from one RPG (rocket-propelled
grenade). The RPG round went high and missed. The patrol could not locate the source.
A 3rd Infantry Division checkpoint noticed that two individuals with RPGs were attempting
to low crawl up to their position. The checkpoint engaged with small arms. 2 x Enemy
KIA (killed-in-action).
A 1st Armored Division patrol in Baghdad discovered three men attempting to set up an
ambush. The group fled into a nearby mosque. The patrol surrounded the mosque, then
coordinated for the Iraqi police to enter .The men were detained without incident and
turned over to U.S. forces, and a weapons cache discovered at the mosque was
confiscated.
A 4th Infantry Division patrol was ambushed with two RPGs as it traveled to a Ba'ath
Party house near Karbala. The patrol continued to the target and conducted a raid,
receiving some small arms fire. 1 x Enemy KIA, 1 x Enemy WIA (wounded-in-action), 3 x
detainees.
A 101st Air Assault Division patrol in Mosul was attacked by a group of nine individuals
with small arms. The group fled into a large building used for housing. The patrol decided
not to pursue due to the risk of collateral damage.
A 3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment checkpoint along the Syrian border was fired on by a
vehicle on the Iraqi side. The checkpoint returned fire, but the vehicle fled. 1 x U.S. WIA
(multiple gunshot wounds).
A 101st Air Assault Division checkpoint in Mosul was attacked with small arms by two
individuals on motorcycles. The checkpoint returned fire, and the motorcyclists fled. The
soldiers pursued and wounded one of the individuals, who was then turned over to the
local police.
(S) Over 50 U.S. soldiers have been killed since the official end of the war on 1 May, and the
Coalition forces average almost 4 wounded per day.
"(U//FOUO) SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet

without the consent of S0121 (DL sid_comms)."

DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL
DERIVED FROM: NSA/CSSM 1-52, DATED 08 JAN 2007 DECLASSIFY ON: 20320108


