DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

%\ I W (U) OUTPARKS: A New Internet for NSA

      

FROM: SIGINT Communications
Unknown
Run Date: 06/11/2003

(U//FOUO) For years, NSA had a variety of means for accessing the Internet. Over time, those
connections and pseudo—networks deteriorated and were overcome by a growing user base that
increasingly demanded more and better Internet utility. Following the events of 11 September
2001, the need for greater Internet access and a vital, robust unclassified infrastructure became
clear. The exponential growth of AIRGAP throughout the Agency and the need for more
information and a refined collaborative atmosphere across government accelerated the demand
to consolidate NSA's unclassified systems.

(U//FOUO) Using SIGINT Directorate Internet access r'eauirements as a foundation, the
modernization of our unclassified environment — OUTPARKS — began almost as soon as Eagle
Alliance came onboard. It was a huge task. Years of legacy systems, patched connections,
redundant routers and servers, outdated equipment, old software and scores of other issues had
to be removed or resolved and new, streamlined procedures and modern equipment installed.

(U//FOUO) Machines currently resident on older systems will automatically connect to
OUTPARKS. As a result, users won't have to be concerned about having a BRAZEN or NIPRNet or
OSIS or AIRGAP machine. Rather, there will be an Internet terminal from which one will connect
to the World Wide Web and still be able to access data or connections particular to those
systems. Except for AIRGAP, there will be no need to logon to different services individually and
users will have their choice of "user—friendly" email accounts.

(U//FOUO) The first integration is expected by Summer 2004 when some BRAZEN users will be
moved to the new network. With that initial transfer, OUTPARKS will begin to provide the NSA
unclassfied user population with an expanded, more secure, state—of—the—art network.

(U//FOUO) Ideas are already being discussed for using OUTPARKS to deliver the Internet with as
little desktop clutter possible. This includes the display of Internet and classified data on a single
desktop monitor. We also want to extend the Internet to the widest audience possible, including
the Extended Enterprise. Field connectivity to OUTPARKS (or OUTPARKS technology) would allow
those remote users the same state—of—the—art functionality, security and accesses available at
NSAW.

(U//FOUO) In addition to modernized connectivity, SID intends to enhance Internet user skills.
Efforts such as REED n Winders annual volume " Untangling the Web: An Introduction To

Inter :t Researc " and her monthly " The Wor“tl*-\,"u'l*-ile V s " are excellent resources for
learning about the intricacies of navigating the Internet effecitvely and safely. In addition to
these publications and other Internet Research assistance, we will be looking for ways to make
the SID population more Internet savvy.

      

  

(U//FOUO) OUTPARKS is a major step in modernizing and transforrtiint NSA. With faster, more
advanced, managed and protected access to the Internet and a more knowledgeable workforce,
the entire SIGINT Enterprise will be able to effectively integrate the huge information resource

that is the Internet into the intelligence process.

  

(U//FOUO) For more information, see: SID Internet Program and SIGINT Success Stories .

"(U//FOU0) SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet
without the consent of 50121 (Di. ski comma; )."

 

