DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

(U) Introduction to —, Customer Relationships Director

FROM: —
Deputy Director or Customer Relationships

Run Date: 08/01/2003

 

§\

(U//FOUO) It's a great time to work in the Signals Intelligence
Directorate (SID). First of all, it's an opportunity to improve and
refine the new processes that have been put into place. Secondly,
it's a time to feel a sense of pride for the successes you've
achieved in providing tremendous support to our customers over
the past couple of years, although I realize you may find it difficult 1, Cumin: Soon:

to pause and savor success in light of the continuing high ops .‘ .tin to Kngw the
tempo. I'm very honored to have been asked to lead Customer -
Relationships Directorate (CRD), and I am looking forward to 2
working with my colleagues to build upon these successes.

\\\\
3\\\§ SERIES:
(U) Getting to Know the
SID Leadership Team

    

    

. Ir reducing Jim
r Incom 1'

        
 
  

(U//FOUO) I've spent much of my career working directly for

customers and with overseers —— in a Cryptologic Service Group

(CSG), as an NSA representative, on the staff of a customer 3
organization, in the Legislative Affairs Office, and recently with the '
DoD and IC requirements boards and acquisition oversight

authorities. I've seen firsthand not only the value of building good 4
relationships but also the importance of providing products and '
services to customers that meet their specific needs. NSA and SID

have made a strong commitment to customer service by investing
resources to better understand the intelligence needs of our

i A&P"s
‘ecnnical

 

 

ion~ ios

customers; to improve synchronization of activities across SID and 5 I“n.ﬂ“t.“r.“o.ﬂ“d.ﬂﬂ“u.“c“‘tﬂﬂli‘oﬂﬂﬂhmxto
focus on hunting key information; and to use those customer ' Customer
vectors to drive our investment, business, and, often, policy @hlps

decisions. While the new structures and processes within CRD to
help SID accomplish these objectives are still very immature, we
are getting better. More importantly, we are receiving positive
feedback from customers on this business model. We will continue
to develop, fine tune, and strengthen our efforts.

Director

(U//FOUO) What's the role of leadership? Having a unified vision
and communicating it clearly is first and foremost. Aligning goals
and objectives, obtaining and allocating resources (corporately not
competitively), empowering people to fully use their skills and
talents, delegating responsibility, deciding how much risk is
acceptable, anticipating issues and problems so as to avoid some of
the speed bumps, and implementing good business processes are
also essential. During the past nine months, I participated in the
Foreign Service Institute Senior Seminar sponsored by the
Department of State. I had the opportunity to meet and discuss
issues with the most senior leaders in government, military,
education, religion, and industry. As we met with each person and
learned about their strategic goals and challenges, we also asked
about their philosophy of leadership and how to achieve
organizational success. Almost without exception, each one
mentioned the importance of integrity to success, both personal
and institutional. By institutional integrity, they meant
transparency and openness, honesty, professional respect, follow
through on commitments, and cooperation.

(U//FOUO) Each directorate has a unique role to play, but we are

