DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

RX I W (U) CAPT Joseph Rochefort Career Language Award Winners

      

FROM: SIGINT Communications
Unknown
Run Date: 06/05/2003

(U) Yesterday we told you about the winners of the Jaffe Career Language Awards. Today we
spotlight the winners of the CAPT Joseph Rochefort Award for military linguists:

(S//SI//REL) The winner of the Rochefort Award, Mid-Career , is —, USAF
, of the Russian Tactical Air Team (J35A2) at the Medina Regional Security Operations Center
(MRSOC). After only five years in the military, _ has demonstrated the highest level of
Russian language capability and applied those skills with professionalism against the Russian Air
Defense target.

(S//SI) While assigned to the Defense Language Institute (DLI), * received the
"Provost Award for Academic Excellence" and graduated with a 4.0 gra e point average, a
unique accomplishment for a non—native speaker. He also graduated at the top of his class at
the Cryptologic Linguistic Apprentice course at Goodfellow Air Force Base and at a language
immersion course at Moscow State University. — also undertook a self—study program
to learn Ukrainian, to help fill a critical need for inguists in that language.

(S//SI) At MRSOC,“ emerged as a leader within his section. He recommended
improvements to MRSOC s co ection procedures, producing a 110% increase in the collection of
reportable material. He was appointed Deputy Team Chief of the 18—member Air Combat Team
and performed quality control for all of their reports. He has reported on a variety of topics,
including Russian operations in Chechnya and Kosovo, and single—handedly published a
comprehensive report detailing Russian fighter tactics, capabilities and pilot training levels. He
has been credited with producing reporting that resulted in changes in U.S. and allied combat
tactics.

(S//SI//REL) The winner of the Rochefort Award, Long-Term , ism
USAF , of the Iran Division, Target Enhancement Branch, at the Ft or on egIona ecurIty
Operations Center (GRSOC). — is one of the SIGINT community's "go to" Persian
language experts on the Iranian mi itary, working closely with NSA and Second Parties.

(TS//SI) Certified as one of the very few military Persian language analysts, has
served in several capacities, including tours at NSA, Menwith Hill Station (MHS , t e Defense

Language Institute (DLI), and the GRSOC. His work at MHS during Operation DESERT SHIELD
reaped great benefits for the intelligence community and operational commanders by providing
valuable intelligence on the situation in Iran and reflections of the conflict in neighboring Iraq. At
DLI,— mentored a department of over 120 military and civilian students, and received
high praise rom the Persian language department for his efforts.

(TS//SI)_ led the transfer of the Iranian military mission to the GRSOC in 1997. He
worked closely with management and senior linguists at NSA to coordinate the successful
transition of the target from NSA and MHS to the GRSOC. Since that time, he has effectively
tripled the scope of the mission, helping to increase the level of tactical support to U.S. and
coalition forces in the Persian Gulf region. His target development work has helped lead to the
exploitation of new sources of collection that account for over 60% of the GRSOC's Iran Target
Division's production. q recognized the need for a target development team in the
division, and trained a 5—mem er team that has had success against the GRSOC military target
set. He has received several awards, including the Keystone Award and Szymanowski Award, for
his contributions.

(U) These are only some of the achievements of the Rochefort Award winners. We wish them
our hearty congratulations!

