DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

\ \ I W (5//sr) New Release: The FORNSAT Plan
‘ V V Ticohhrliichor FORNSAT

Run Date: 06/03/2003

4/

  

(TS//SI) This isn't your Grandfather's FORNSAT Plan! For over 30 years, the collection and
processing of international communications from foreign communications satellites (FORNSAT)
has been part of NSA's balanced collection program. To maintain that balance, FORNSAT
Program has planned a vigorous modernization. The FORNSAT Plan probes the current
intelligence value of the FORNSAT program vis—a—vis the commercial satellite business plans for
launches, services and customers. Then it lays out the current technical capability, pointing out
the current and future needs and prioritizing the system gaps. These gaps form the basis for the
proposed modernization. It's no surprise that the FORNSAT system is in a dire need of upgrade
to eXploit the technology already introduced to the commercial industry——techno|ogy that is
being used today by important intelligence targets, i.e. mobile satellite phones, digital video
broadcast over satellite, private satellite networks, etc.

(TS//SI) Major thrusts of this plan begin with the need for a wholesale change in the FORNSAT
architecture. The last major upgrade for the program was Trans World Digital (TWD) in the mid—
90s. TWD targeted long—haul international circuit—switched telephony and was designed before
the Internet boom. Bottom—line is that the current architecture, primarily engineered for voice
traffic, is trying to support high data—rate DNI carriers. The second major thrust is in the area of
Mobile Satellite Services (Thuraya, ACeS, Inmarsat and others). These service providers
illuminate their coverage areas through the use of hundreds of spot beams. Our 13 fixed
FORNSAT sites cannot provide the necessary access; the plan presents a number of options,
including relying on our covert partners to provide the required points of presence. Lastly, the
Plan proposes ways to improve FORNSAT's SIGINT Development capabilities. Initiatives range
from providing additional resources, to the concept of the "Virtual Analyst"——|everaging the
various Signals Development Centers to provide signals analysis support to our covert partners.

(TS//SI) For over 30 years, FORNSAT has provided timely and significant information on a wide
variety of intelligence topics that by their nature flow across national boundaries. This access has
delivered transit traffic about terrorists, international crime, weapons of mass destruction,
proliferation, arms control, international finance and trade, not to mention the intelligence
derived from diplomatic communications, private commercial networks, airline reservations and
billing data. The flexible architecture of the FORNSAT system has allowed NSA to fine—tune
collection and processing and locate information relevant to the most current intelligence needs.
For this reason, FORNSAT has consistently provided the information used in over 25% of end
product reporting year after year. And a careful implementation of the FORNSAT Plan will ensure
this trend to continue for many years to come.

(S//SI) For further information on the FORNSAT Plan, check out the FORNSAT Divisior'i web ‘laCE‘
. You may also type, "go fornsat" in Webworld.

   

"(U//FOU0) SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet
without the consent of 50121 (Di. sid commas)?

 

DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL
DERIVED FROM: NSA/CSSM 1-52, DATED 08 JAN 2007 DECLASSIFY ON: 20320108

