o SECRET Over-the Internet ——Particu|ar|y attractive to Law
Enforcement——a cross—organizational effort to provide
SECRET—level data to an unclassified workstation, in a non—
SCIF (sensitive compartmented information facility) area,
over the commercial Internet. The destination workstation
would remain unclassified.

0 Wireless Dissemination — Cell phones, pagers and
personal digital assistants are increasingly becoming the
tools of choice for information exchange for our Customers.
S12 Products and Services Futures continues the initiative
to disseminate Secret—level information to this set of
wireless devices.

0 SIGINT on DEMAND (SOD) — SOD is a web—based tool
that allows customers access to intelligence "snippets" prior
to the release of a full report. SOD allows customers to
view these snippets directly from their workstations via
direct e—mail, or through Intelink. Although still in
development, many NSA customers access information via
SOD everyday.

o E Notebook — Printed and manual distribution of NSA
product remains the primary dissemination vehicle for some
customers. For example, the product pull, sort, collate and
manual delivery at the Pentagon involves up to eight
employees and reams of paper. Customer Response has
developed the technology to store the serialized product
retrieved from ANCHORY on a compact flash card. The
compact flash card can be read and displayed (after user
authentication) on an "E—notebook" or "Tablet PC." The E—
notebook can remain in customer offices, and product
delivery is accomplished via the compact flash card (vice a
large stack of paper.)

(S//SI) The challenges facing SID in responding to change of this
magnitude will only increase. Managing customer relationships
successfully now requires an underlying structure that builds
confidence with the customer and within the workforce that issues
will be worked to resolution. That structure will be described in the
conclusion of our series.

(U//FOUO) We hope you continue to read the articles in this series
and, again, urge you to contact Customer Gateway
Chief of Staff, S11, _, @nsa, with any comments
or suggestions.

"(U//FOU0) SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet
without the consent of 50121 (Di. sled comma; )."

DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL
DERIVED FROM: NSA/CSSM 1-52, DATED 08 JAN 2007 DECLASSIFY ON: 20320108

