DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

%\ I W (U) SID Town Meeting Recap

FROM: the SIGINT Communications Team
Unknown
Run Date: 04/28/2003

      

(U//FOUO) On Friday, MG Richard Quirk and Charlie Meals hosted their first SID Town Meeting in
their new roles as Signals Intelligence Director and Deputy Director. After introducing
themselves and the other members of the SID Leadership Team, they went on to provide their
sense of where SID is headed. Several themes ran throughout the meeting:

0 (U) SID on the Right Path

(U//FOUO) MG Quirk and Mr. Meals emphasized that SID's current transformation efforts will
continue. They expected no major changes in direction or reorganizations. As General Quirk
stated, "The plane is rebuilt——let's fly it." SID’s striateazv remains the same, and is aligned with
the NSA strategy.

   

0 (U) The Importance of the Workforce

(U//FOUO) Both leaders hold the view that "people are the top and bottom line" in SID's

success. Mr. Meals described the workforce as brilliant and enthusiastic about their jobs. General
Quirk's view is that people want to: do good; make a difference; and reach their full potential. As
a manager, he wants to help people accomplish these goals.

(U//FOUO) In this vein, General Quirk and Mr. Meals will pay close attention to career
development issues, a fair promotion system, rewards for outstanding performance, and working
conditions. They also encouraged the workforce to achieve a proper work/life balance, and to
take leave as appropriate. General Quirk stated that he wants everyone to be "at their best"
when they are at work.

0 (U) Integration/Teamwork

(U//FOUO) SID has made great strides during this "Year of Integration", and these efforts will
continue. Our strategy for the Iraq Campaign——with its use of an OPPLAN, Issue Managers, and
other steps to ensure coordinated teamwork——worked "extremely well." There is more work to be
done, but we will continue to build on our successes in this regard. It is important that we all
pull together every day, and not only during crisis situations.

(U//FOUO) Regarding teamwork at the management level, General Quirk and Mr. Meals will
work very closely with each other and with the other members of SID leadership. This includes
the new leaders of the Deputy Directorates (see a recent SID Tode i article on the subject) and
the DD's Technical Directors.

   

0 (U) Values

(U) General Quirk reaffirmed that integrity and "doing the right thing" are values that we
continue to live by and describe "who we are."

0 (U) Leadership Style

(U) The SID leaders are serious about their work, but not about themselves. They believe that
we can enjoy ourselves while working hard.

 

(U//FOUO) MG Quirk and Charlie Meals would like to hear your ideas and concerns. They will try
to meet as many SID employees as possible in person. In the meantime, please use the SID
Mailbag (in the Workforce Outreach section of the main SID Today page) to submit your

