DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

S

   
   

(U//FOU0) You Can't Keep the NSC Waiting!.. A Day in the Life of a
GRSOC Analyst

FROM: F
Deputy C ie , GRSOC Digital Network Intelligence Center

I\\\ Run Date: 12/15/2003

(TS//SI) "The National Security Council is interested in a Qeshm Air
flight from Iran to Syria tonight that is probably carrying a load of
weapons for the Hezballah. You need to cover the flight and report
everything you get. CIA is standing by to pass your reports to Ms.
Rice." The i‘ 302’: Senior Operations Officer was clear and to the 1.
point. He wasn't concerned that my duty day had ended and I was

on my way home. As the senior analyst in GRSOC'S Iranian Military 2.
Division, J303, it was my responsibility to make sure the NSC got 3.
what they wanted.

§§ SERIES:
(U) A Day in the Life of...

(S//SI) I immediately grabbed the team chief working the Iranian 4
Air Force mission, who had the misfortune of working a little late, '
and we started developing our game plan to cover the flight. Since 5
the GRSOC collection manager was gone for the day, we placed a '
conference call to the Overhead Collection Management Center and 6
discussed our collection needs. We had to cover all possible '
frequencies, routes, and SIGINT tipping and reporting procedures 7
for the flight, as well as coordinate with the Syrian shop within '
GRSOC as they would cover the plane once it entered Syrian air 8
space. Our shift linguists and analysts were gone for the day so the '
team chief would cover the collection and language work. I would 9 .
man the shift reporting position and issue KLIEGLIGHTS (a time— ' Chair
sensitive reporting vehicle) on the flight, tip NSOC and the Syrian 10' Want Keep the
shop, write the end—product reports and send email information NSC Waiting!.. A Day
directly to senior officials at CIA to pass on to the NSC. The in the Life of a
pressure was immense but I loved every minute of it. (Yes, we GRSOC Analyst
covered the flight and gave the NSC exactly the information they

needed!)

      

   

(S//SI) Every day wasn't quite that intense, but each day did
present unique challenges. Since US military commanders and
adimistration officials were never quite sure how Iran, the third
member of the "AXis of Evil," would react to the US Global War on
Terrorism it was my responsibility to make sure any anticipated or
actual reaction to US forces was reportedly as quickly and
accurately as possible. In order to do this, I had to provide
technical and end—product reporting guidance to a team of military
and civilian analysts working at least two shifts — days and swings.
On the surface this seemed quite easy, but the fact that 75 percent
of our analysts were first term military members straight out of
technical training made it more challenging. Guidance had be
comprehensive enough to cover all required items but simple
enough for a junior analyst to understand in the middle of the
night during some high—interest activity. I would then have to
review their reporting and provide feedback that would correct any
problems yet not discourage their efforts.

(S//SI) I would also edit reports prior to release and often had to
assist the various teams by producing reports on a variety of topics
from an Iranian Air Force assessment of US airborne SIGINT
operations to the status of air defense weapons guarding the

