DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

(U) Dynamic Methods of Interaction with New and Existing Customers
FROM:
Acting Chief, Customer Gateway
Run Date: 04/22/2003

(S//SI) Nothing has changed the face of our nation like the
terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001. Those attacks, the war in
Iraq, and the crisis in North Korea have also changed the faces and
the needs of most of our customers and partners. World events
created new customers and changed the roles of others in ways
that we could not have imagined. Yet, the Signals Intelligence
Directorate (SID) already had the framework in place in the
Customer Relationships Directorate (CRD) to absorb and respond
to this tidal wave of change.
(S//SI) In the Customer Gateway, NSA's External Representatives
who are integrated at customer agencies joined hands with Senior
Executive Account Managers (SEAMs), Account Managers (AMs),
National Cryptologic Representatives (NCRs), SIGINT National
Intelligence Officers (SINIOs), and Product Line Leaders to produce
new profiles of our customers' needs. Those profiles, captured in
Customer Support Plans , provide a detailed blueprint for what
intelligence each customer needs as well as the preferred method
of dissemination.
(S//SI) Customers such as the Department of Interior and the
Department of Agriculture, whom we considered to be in a
"caretaker" status before 11 September, suddenly became
voracious consumers of SIGINT. The NSA Representative, who had
been servicing these accounts with a weekly visit to analysts at
those locations, suddenly received the access to brief the
Secretaries of Agriculture and Interior multiple times weekly.
Similarly, completely new customers appeared - U.S. Northern
Command (NORTHCOM) , the Federal Reserve, and the Missile
Defense Agency. Other new customers, such as the Department of
Homeland Security, created a ripple effect on demand for SID
products and services among existing customers absorbed into
that organization such as U.S. Customs, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS), and the U.S. Secret Service. Existing
customers, such as U.S. Strategic Command (STRATCOM), also
absorbed other organizations and missions (U.S. Space
Command/SPACECOM), underlining our need to be flexible in
responding to customer needs.
(S//SI) The increasingly critical role of intelligence in supporting
the Law Enforcement Community has prompted both the Federal
Bureau of Investigation and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and
Firearms to create Intelligence Directorates that will dramatically
alter interactions with the Intelligence Community, particularly
when the Terrorist Threat Integration Center reaches full
operational capability.
(S//SI) Our customers have challenged us to change with them,
anticipate their needs, and collaborate with them on the way
ahead. In that spirit, Customer Response has several new and
dynamic dissemination products coming to "market" that include:

 SERIES: 
(U) Customer Relations
1.  When Meeting
Customer Needs
Means Defending the
Nation
2.  Information Needs
Management: Careful
Planning Aids SIGINT
Response to Iraq
War
3.  Dynamic Methods of
Interaction with New
and Existing
Customers
4.  A Perspective on the
NSA/ USUN
Partnership
5.  Making Customer
Feedback Work for
Everyone

SECRET Over-the Internet --Particularly attractive to Law
Enforcement--a cross-organizational effort to provide
SECRET-level data to an unclassified workstation, in a nonSCIF (sensitive compartmented information facility) area,
over the commercial Internet. The destination workstation
would remain unclassified.
Wireless Dissemination - Cell phones, pagers and
personal digital assistants are increasingly becoming the
tools of choice for information exchange for our Customers.
S12 Products and Services Futures continues the initiative
to disseminate Secret-level information to this set of
wireless devices.
SIGINT on DEMAND (SOD) - SOD is a web-based tool
that allows customers access to intelligence "snippets" prior
to the release of a full report. SOD allows customers to
view these snippets directly from their workstations via
direct e-mail, or through Intelink. Although still in
development, many NSA customers access information via
SOD everyday.
E Notebook - Printed and manual distribution of NSA
product remains the primary dissemination vehicle for some
customers. For example, the product pull, sort, collate and
manual delivery at the Pentagon involves up to eight
employees and reams of paper. Customer Response has
developed the technology to store the serialized product
retrieved from ANCHORY on a compact flash card. The
compact flash card can be read and displayed (after user
authentication) on an "E-notebook" or "Tablet PC." The Enotebook can remain in customer offices, and product
delivery is accomplished via the compact flash card (vice a
large stack of paper.)
(S//SI) The challenges facing SID in responding to change of this
magnitude will only increase. Managing customer relationships
successfully now requires an underlying structure that builds
confidence with the customer and within the workforce that issues
will be worked to resolution. That structure will be described in the
conclusion of our series.
(U//FOUO) We hope you continue to read the articles in this series
and, again, urge you to contact
 Customer Gateway
Chief of Staff, S11, 
, 
@nsa, with any comments
or suggestions.

"(U//FOUO) SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet
without the consent of S0121 (DL sid comms)."

DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL
DERIVED FROM: NSA/CSSM 1-52, DATED 08 JAN 2007 DECLASSIFY ON: 20320108


