DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

(U) Promotion Cycle Recap
FROM:
SID Workforce Performance Management Executive
Run Date: 04/08/2003

(U//FOUO) We are now well into the FY03 promotion cycle. This year the Director has allocated
more money than in the past few years and has distributed promotion/QSI (quality step
increase) and award dollars at the same time to give managers a variety of ways to adjust top
performers' salaries. This takes us the next step toward compensation reform and will allow us
to adjust salaries in three ways-promotions, QSIs, and bonuses-all in the same time frame with
the same process. However, having said that, we need to again remind people of the facts - SID
has 5,324 people eligible for promotion, and we estimate that the dollar allocation will allow us
to promote about 700 people, or 1 in 8 of those eligible.
(U//FOUO) This pay adjustment process is a core leadership and management priority and
responsibility. Managers are to look at the potential people demonstrate and not just "what have
you done for me lately" performance. They are to look at the whole person - the skills, abilities,
attributes, and qualities people bring to their job performance and the demonstration of
adherence to the core SID values of integrity, loyalty, commitment, openness, respect, and
corporate mindedness. Remember that promotions are for outstanding performance, thus
adherence to the above principles, and the demonstration of potential to work at the next level.
(U//FOUO) We've built feedback into every level of this cycle. As decisions are made and names
are forwarded to the next level, people are to receive feedback about the results. No one be
surprised, either positively or negatively, on the day salary adjustments are announced. We will
perform spot checks on the process both to see if people are receiving feedback and to see if
the feedback is constructive and raise any issues to leadership for immediate resolution.
(U//FOUO) We will continue to provide communications throughout this process. In addition, this
information will all be posted on the SID Workforce Performance Management homepage .

"(U//FOUO) SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet
without the consent of S0121 (DL sid comms)."

DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL
DERIVED FROM: NSA/CSSM 1-52, DATED 08 JAN 2007 DECLASSIFY ON: 20320108


