DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

FROM:
Customer Account Management (S112)
Run Date: 12/22/2003

 

Ix

(S//REL) An early start can have you climbing John Paul Jones Hill
to the Joint Task Force (JTF) SCIF while taking in a beautiful
sunrise over the Caribbean Sea with Camp Delta looming austerely
below on the southern coastline. After a hustled day of tackling a
myriad of issues and directly contributing to the global war on
terrorism, one might be inclined to drive out to Phillips Park and
enjoy a gorgeous sunset over Leeward Landing; however, the day
would not be complete without the frequent iguana encounter. Few
work environments offer such an opportunity — a rewarding
challenge with incredible surroundings.

(S//REL) The mission of JTF—GTMO is to conduct detention and
interrogation operations to collect and eXploit intelligence in
support of the global war on terrorism (GWOT), to screen
detainees, and to support law enforcement and war crimes
investigations. The NSA Liaison Officer (NSA LNO) works in the
Joint Interrogation Group (JIG), a major element of JTF—GTMO. The
interrogation focus at Guantanamo is strategic; tactical questioning
is accomplished in—theater to see what they know, categorize them
accordingly, and determine what requirements they can satisfy.

(S) The work can be eXtremely interesting, challenging and very
fulfilling. On a given week, the NSA LNO might pull together
intelligence to support an upcoming interrogation, formulate
questions and strategies for the interrogation, and observe or
participate in the interrogation. Afterward, the LNO captures and
disseminates pertinent technical information gleaned from the
interrogation back to NSA TOPIs for SIGINT development.

(U//FOUO) Outside work, fun awaits and opportunities abound.
Water sports are outstanding: boating, paddling, fishing, water
skiing and boarding, sailing, swimming, snorkeling, and SCUBA. No

experience, no problem. Learn how to operate a boat in a weekend,

become a certified open water scuba diver within weeks. If you've
already mastered these skills, or once you do, the MWR marina
rents boats from pontoon party boats to Carolina skiffs to ski boats
to kayaks...and recently they've added sailboat rentals, too. The
local dive shop has all the gear and tips to ensure a perfect outing.
Surround all this water fun with a Tiki Bar and a Jerk House as well
as the Bayview Restaurant relaXing is easy.

(U//FOUO) Water sports not your cup of tea? There are many
other activities to round your day off. The library has two dozen
internet terminals and over 1000 videos. Or take in a movie at the
outdoor theatre featuring a weekly variety of the latest releases.
Other activities include: pottery, hiking, nature walks, biking,
paintball, martial arts, tennis, racquetball, basketball, softball, and
bowling. There are also several swimming pools and gyms. Or, just
relaX and take in the warmth of the sun.

(U//FOUO) If you would be interested in a TDY opportunity at

(U//FOU0) SID Around the World: A TDY to Guantanamo Bay

\\\\
3\\\§ SERIES:

(U) SID Around the
World '03

1. I’ am n: Soon: 3.1L”)
und the, World?
.3 Around the

     
  

   

.. .3 Around the
World: SIGINT fr om

 

World:i .‘
Field

6. SID Around the

World: Washin ton
DC.

7. SID Around the
World: Peak
Condition Der \er

8. SID Around tl
World: The Rl "

     

 

 

 

10.

 

11. SID Around the ‘ ‘
World: A TDY to
Guantanamo Bay

