DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

(U//FOUO) MG Quirk as the SIGINT Director: We're on the Right Path
FROM: MG Richard J. Quirk, USA
Signals Intelligence Director
Run Date: 04/21/2003

(U//FOUO) Replacing a legend is not easy. Maureen Baginski's remarkable accomplishments as
the first Signals Intelligence Director have left an indelible impact on our organization and
people. Our loss is the FBI's gain. As their new Executive Assistant Director for Intelligence, Mo
will be protecting the homeland in one of the nation's most critical positions. It is my honor to
follow her as the next Signals Intelligence Director for the National Security Agency. I am also
proud to have Charlie Meals as the new Signals Intelligence Deputy Director. Charlie and I will
be a true team and his wealth of SIGINT expertise will help guide our organization as we move
into the future.
(U//FOUO) During my tour here at NSA, I've learned that we have it right and that we need to
keep it moving in the right direction. Our superb performance supporting the warfighters and
policy makers in Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom is clear evidence of this. Our
organizational structure and strategy are sound, and the changes we've implemented over
recent years have postured us to meet the challenges that lie ahead. We're working together
and meeting customer needs in ways that were inconceivable only a few years ago. A continued
commitment to our SID Strategy and its alignment with NSA's Corporate Strategy remains vital.
So my primary goal will be to keep us on the successful course set by that strategy. Some
adjustments may be necessary along the way. But each and every day, we'll work together to
build on our achievements.
(U//FOUO) I am also looking forward to working with those who will fill leadership positions in
SID's Deputy Directorates(see related
article in SID Today) -- as a united leadership team, committed to our strategy and cascading it
down into your trusted hands. To all of us, the SID workforce will be paramount--the strength of
our organization lies with its talented, dedicated workforce and the tremendous contributions
you bring to SIGINT. I'm counting on you to continue the relentless pursuit of our mission.
Charlie and I will make a point of interacting extensively with the workforce both here at NSAW
and across our vast and global extended enterprise. We'll be doing a lot of walking around-both
at NSAW and at our Field Sites and partners-to visit you in your workspaces. And we invite you
to feel free to visit us at any time.
(UFOUO) We're planning a SID Town Meeting in the near future to listen to your comments and
answer some of your questions (watch for the announcement). And the SID Mailbag is open, so
take advantage of it and send us your comments, concerns, and suggestions. As Charlie and I
settle into our new roles, we want to hear from you.
(U//FOUO) This is our SID and our NSA. You're the ones with the best sense of how to continue
our sucess. I am so proud to continue to serve with you in taking care of today's mission and
preparing the SIGINT Enterprise for the future.

"(U//FOUO) SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet
without the consent of S0121 (DL sid comms)."

DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL
DERIVED FROM: NSA/CSSM 1-52, DATED 08 JAN 2007 DECLASSIFY ON: 20320108


