DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

FROM: F
Acting C ie , Customer Gateway

Run Date: 04/22/2003

 

§\

(S//SI) Nothing has changed the face of our nation like the
terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001. Those attacks, the war in
Iraq, and the crisis in North Korea have also changed the faces and
the needs of most of our customers and partners. World events
created new customers and changed the roles of others in ways
that we could not have imagined. Yet, the Signals Intelligence
Directorate (SID) already had the framework in place in the
Customer Relationships Directorate (CRD) to absorb and respond
to this tidal wave of change.

(S//SI) In the Customer Gateway, NSA's External Representatives
who are integrated at customer agencies joined hands with Senior
Executive Account Managers (SEAMs), Account Managers (AMs),
National Cryptologic Representatives (NCRs), SIGINT National
Intelligence Officers (SINIOs), and Product Line Leaders to produce
new profiles of our customers' needs. Those profiles, captured in
Customer Su ort Plans , provide a detailed blueprint for what
intelligence each customer needs as well as the preferred method
of dissemination.

     

(S//SI) Customers such as the Department of Interior and the
Department of Agriculture, whom we considered to be in a
"caretaker" status before 11 September, suddenly became
voracious consumers of SIGINT. The NSA Representative, who had
been servicing these accounts with a weekly visit to analysts at
those locations, suddenly received the access to brief the
Secretaries of Agriculture and Interior multiple times weekly.
Similarly, completely new customers appeared — U.S. Northern
Command (NORTHCOM) , the Federal Reserve, and the Missile
Defense Agency. Other new customers, such as the Department of
Homeland Security, created a ripple effect on demand for SID
products and services among existing customers absorbed into
that organization such as US. Customs, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS), and the US. Secret Service. Existing
customers, such as US. Strategic Command (STRATCOM), also
absorbed other organizations and missions (US. Space
Command/SPACECOM), underlining our need to be flexible in
responding to customer needs.

(S//SI) The increasingly critical role of intelligence in supporting
the Law Enforcement Community has prompted both the Federal
Bureau of Investigation and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and
Firearms to create Intelligence Directorates that will dramatically
alter interactions with the Intelligence Community, particularly
when the Terrorist Threat Integration Center reaches full
operational capability.

(S//SI) Our customers have challenged us to change with them,
anticipate their needs, and collaborate with them on the way
ahead. In that spirit, Customer Response has several new and
dynamic dissemination products coming to "market" that include:

(U) Dynamic Methods of Interaction with New and Existing Customers

\\\\
3\\\§ SERIES:

(U) Customer Relations

 

. Dynamic Methods of

Interaction with New
and Existing
Customers

. A Persnective on the

   

NSA; USUN
e ' -

       

.. i... .. .orner
Feedback Work for
Eve r‘g 0 n 63,

 

