DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

(U) Plenty of Action on the Action Team

FROM:
SID Action Team
Run Date: 09/29/2003

 

§\

(U//FOUO) As a member of the SID Action team you have been

vw
\\\\ .
asked to do which of the following: §“ SERIES'

(U) A Day in the Life of...
1. Analyze MG Quirk's engagement strategy for stakeholders
and partners — and, if appropriate, tell him what you think 1
won't work. '
2. Assist SID senior leadership in institutionalizing SIGINT 2
business processes '
3. Prepare a speech for the SID Deputy Director to present to
a US. Ambassadors' Seminar.

 

    

4. Take notes at an offsite. ~ .
. . . 4. Data . w Manager:
5. Transport MG Quirk's white board In your truck to the ~ . Fag,“ ?
offsite. . . ‘
6. Represent SID at a prep session with General Hayden. 5'

7. All of the above 6.

(U//FOUO) Obviously the answer is 7 — all of the above — plus a
whole lot more. The depth and breadth of activities for members of
the SIGINT Action Team are as varied as the backgrounds and skill
levels of the members of the team.

7. Plenty of Action on
the Action Team

(U//FOUO) The perception of most outsiders, upon finding out that
you work on the Action Team, is one of "oh wow you must be
really busy", or "ugh," or more often than not, "what's that?"
However, those who have been on the team know that the
experience can be invigorating and the environment one of the
best for learning. It's not all rosy — there are periods where it is
thankless, tiring, late days, frustrating — but it's never boring.

 

GRSOC Anai"st

 

(U//FOUO) On a daily basis, the members of the team (generally
consisting of 6—7 people) provide a variety of services to MG Quirk,
Charlie Meals, the Chief of Staff, and the SID Deputy Directors
(i.e., bubbles). Members of the team are intimately involved with
SID leadership activities that lead the way for change for SID —
applying strategic thinking, vision, creativity and innovation to a
multitude of tasks. The lower end of the experience is the
mundane — such as running to the repro machine to make copies of
a briefing at 6:00 PM on a Friday night before a long holiday
weekend. The higher end is having the respect and gratitude of
SID senior leadership — not just for the tasks completed, but also
for the experience and analytic value we bring to the table.

(U//FOUO) Although the team often operates in a QRC mode, there
is a semblance of order. Each day brings change, but it's generally
manageable. The key to survival is real teamwork, flexibility, and
the ability to handle the mundane to the intricate all at the same
time. (Having a truck could also prove useful. Having a sense of
humor is absolutely essential.)

(U//FOUO) The Team is housed in a nondescript little room at the
foot of the escalators in OPSl — save for the little sign on the door,

