DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

(U) SID Around the World: Life in the Field

FROM: H
NCEUR CApps C ief of Staff (F26)

Run Date: 07/02/2003

 

Ix

(U//FOUO) When I was asked to write about life in the Field, for
"SID Around the World", my only challenge was to keep my
comments to a few paragraphs. I arrived at NSA/CSS Europe
(NCEUR), Cryptologic Applications Directorate (F26), in Stuttgart,
Germany, just over a year ago as the Chief of Staff. Although I
started my career as a SIGINTer, I had been managing training and
HR organizations for several years. Coming to NCEUR has allowed
me to re—enter, at least in part, the SIGINT world. The Cryptologic
Applications (CApps) Directorate is co—located with, and provides
support to, the U.S. European Command HQ, on Patch Barracks.

(U//FOUO) This is my fifth overseas assignment, having served
one tour in Korea on active duty, two tours as a military spouse in
Greece and Japan, and two as an NSA civilian in England and
Germany. As a result, I can say authoritatively that the best part of
life in the field is travel. Stuttgart is in a great location since we
can travel to most of Germany, as well as France, Switzerland, or
Austria in a matter of a few hours. The rest of Europe is easily and
inexpensively accessed as well. As a single parent with a daughter
in college, my daughter also benefits from my tour abroad since
she is able to spend her Christmas and summer breaks in Europe.
In one year she has already traveled with me to England, France,
Switzerland, Italy and the Netherlands. We still have two years to

go!

(U) Each country I have lived in has had a slightly, or sometimes
radically, different lifestyle. However, the common thread has been
that I have learned to respect other ways of life, and learned that
"our" way is not the only way. A Field experience is a tremendous
benefit for kids and is something that will impact them their entire
life. They learn to appreciate differences and become more flexible—
— both excellent life skills!

(U//FOUO) I was asked what I will miss most when I leave
Stuttgart. I think I will miss the friends that I have made here, and
will continue to make throughout my tour. When you work in the
field, you not only work with your colleagues, but tend to socialize
with them as well. Although some might not agree, I believe life in
the Field creates a stronger bond than a traditional work
relationship. Although that is not everyone's "cup of tea", I have
found my most rewarding friendships have been those from my
field tours. I have had a wonderful 18—year career at the Agency,
but can say without hesitation that my Field experiences have been
the greatest benefit of my career.

\\\\
3\\\§ SERIES:

(U) SID Around the
World '03

1. ( am n: Soon: SID
und the, World?
.3 Around the

  
  
 

   

.. .3 Around the
World: SIGINT fr om

 

5. SID Around the
World: Life in the
Field

6. SID Around the

World: Washin
DC.

7. SID Around the
World: Peak
Condition be; we:

8. SID Around tl
World: The Rl "

ton

       

 

 

 

10.

 

11. SID Arrouid the H
World: I‘ TDY

 

 

"(U//FOU0) SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet

without the consent of 50121 (Di. sid comms)."

 

