DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

(U) SID's Interactions with Congress: Setting the Budget

FROM: SIGINT Communications
Unknown
Run Date: 05/28/2003

§\

 

(U//FOUO) Although SID provides intelligence primarily for the use
of the Executive Branch of the government, it is the U.S. Congress
that provides oversight and determines the Agency's budget. That
is why our dealings with Congress are so important. In this series,

\\\\
3\\\§ SERIES:
(U) SID and Congress

we'll look at how SID interacts with Congress—— we think you'll be 1. SID's Interactions
surprised at how much work goes into this effort, most of it with Congress:
invisible to the general SID workforce. The focal point within SID Setting the Budget
for these interactions is SID Legislative Affairs (SID LA). 2. Egg-ft», 3'

 

(U//FOUO) Our main contacts in Congress are with the following
four committees: RFIS

3. SID‘s Interact?

 

    

0 House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI)
0 Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI)
0 House Appropriations Committee (HAC)
0 Senate Appropriations Committee (SAC)
For budgeting purposes, the first two committees are known as
"authorizors", while the latter two are the "appropriators". Let's
look briefly at the budget process (we'll try to keep it simple!)...

(U) The Budget
(U) "Marking Up " the President's Budget

(U//FOUO) Since Congress controls the governmental purse
strings, many of our dealings with Congress are related to budget
issues. The process works like this:

0 The President submits a budget to Congress (with SID's
portion detailed in a document called the Congressional
Budget Justification Book — CBJB) requesting specified
amounts of money for NSA and 12 other agencies that are
part of the National Foreign Intelligence Program. Every
year, NSA's DF2 (Accounting and Financial Services) puts
together the CBJB based on input from SID and the rest of
the Agency, excluding IAD.

o The above four congressional committees then review the
CBJB and "mark it up"— i.e. they indicate whether they think
the funding should be raised, lowered, or left the same. The
committee staffers also may request briefings on various
projects, to help them gauge the appropriate level of
funding.

0 The congressional committees then reconcile (this is
referred to as "conference") the various versions of their
mark ups, which result in the Intelligence Authorization Bill
and the Intelligence Appropriation Bill. At that point, it is
submitted to the full Congress for a vote and (if passed)
sent to the President for signature or veto.

(U) More on the CBJB

