DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

(U) Working as a Policy Analyst: One Person's Perspective

FROM: a Policy Analyst
Unknown
Run Date: 08/01/2003

§\

 

(S) When you walk through the door of a SIGINT policy staff office,
what kind of people do you expect to see? You won't find Dilbert!
Instead, you'll find a microcosm of the SIGINT system. Picture a
mix of civilian and military employees, people from a variety of

\\\\
3\\\§ SERIES:
(U) A Day in the Life of...

 

SIGINT disciplines, a myriad of targets, individuals with field 1.
experience, folks with a knowledge of cryptanalysis, those with
experience in military support, ELINT, etc. 2.
3. W k' P |'
(S) Imagine people with different personality traits and work styles Anoarlylgg aosn: o Icy

(introverts, extroverts, visionaries, implementers, risk—takers etc.) Person's Perspective
Starting to sound pretty diverse, doesn't it? Well, this town is big 4' if.) eta F: ow i\’iana;er
enough for all of them. In fact, it needs to be——policy regulates all . . ,
aspects of NSA/CSS operations and the SIGINT system is so big 5 ‘
that one person can't possibly answer all the questions! '

(C) What is a typical day like for a policy "wonk"? People in the
workforce come to us for authoritative answers on a multitude of
topics. Some are time—sensitive or "short—fused" in nature. Whether
they are e—mailing from the 3rd floor or calling from the field, they
usually have already exhausted all other avenues and the buck
stops with us. In an ideal world, the "issue du jour" can be
categorized and handled by the policy officer with the most
expertise in that area. However, even if it is familiar terrain, new
twists can present themselves. Usually we conduct detailed
research, starting with preliminary searches to see if there are
existing policies, directives, or precedents from the Director of
Central Intelligence on down that may provide a solution. Why re—
invent the wheel if a sound process is already in place?

 

. we Life ofa
GRSOC Anar'st

 

(C) In this age of transformation, policy offices face increasing
challenges: we are called upon to approve or get management
approval for precedent—setting initiatives, some with a level of risk
to them. We don't always have the benefit of consulting existing
directives, since the speed of business often outpaces written
policy. In the absence of a formal roadmap, we rely on a toolbox of
business practices and methodologies to keep the SIGINT system
honest. We often:

0 brainstorm with coworkers to find possibilities or solutions
that aren't already apparent

o outline risks and benefits

0 consult all organizations that might be affected a policy
decision (equity owners)

0 learn who the decision—making authorities are on particular
issues, and

I decide when to elevate an issue to the decision—maker

We have to make sure that NSA can account for and defend all
policy decisions (in court, if necessary) and ensure that all
processes can be repeated and extended across the Enterprise (no
cottage industries).

