DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

(U) One Last Mo-Gram: Thank You
FROM: Maureen Baginski
Sigint Director
Run Date: 04/18/2003

(U//FOUO) Overwhelmed is not a word I use often, but it's the right word to
describe how I feel in the face of all the email wishes, kind words, hugs,
cards, and remembrances I've received since making the announcement of
my move to the FBI. I've been very humbled by the outpouring of understanding, support and
kindness--humbled, because I believe in your sincerity for two reasons: 1) as a person I try my
best to always assume noble intent, and 2) as an analyst, reasoning based on evidence tells me
there's no earthly reason for anyone to suck up to me any longer! :)
(U//FOUO) I told you before what an emotion-filled decision this was for me, and now I know
why. All of you in some very special way have touched my life. I have so many great memories
of my time at NSA, and they all center on the enduring relationships that have been built as we
pursued our mission to defend the nation. When I think back on what might be considered
seminal moments in my time at NSA, it's not the operational or analytic details I remember--it's
the faces and names of the people with whom I shared the experience. In the end, any
professional accomplishment I may have enjoyed occurred because of the generosity of human
spirit, intellect, and dedication that is the hallmark of the NSA workforce. In many ways it's as if
I grew up here. It's a privilege to have learned something from every family member I've
encountered. I shall forever treasure all the lessons I learned, but three will stay with me
forever: 1) Leaders and managers work for the people---not the other way around; 2) Never
confuse your personal importance with that of your position; and 3) Laugh often and well--it
truly is the best medicine.
(U//FOUO) In my last day as SIGINT Director, I'd like to challenge you to always remember that
we protect the nation in three ways:
 
By the information we produce
By protecting the rights of U.S. citizens
By using the nation's resources responsibly.
 
(U//FOUO) Starting 5 May I'll be protecting the same nation in the same way from a new
location and I look forward to working with you in a new way. Again, it's truly been an honor to
serve with you.
"(U//FOUO) SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet
without the consent of S0121 (DL sid_comms)."

DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL
DERIVED FROM: NSA/CSSM 1-52, DATED 08 JAN 2007 DECLASSIFY ON: 20320108


