DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

\\ I W (U) Documenting Your Contribution During The Iraq Crisis

\ . .
FROM: the SIGINT Communications Team

Unknown
Run Date: 04/10/2003

      

(U//FOUO) As you saw in a recent A. en: -al§ email , Records Management Officers throughout
NSA have been passed guidance on preserving records related to the Iraq campaign. Below is
the text of this guidance from NSA's Contract Operations, Records Center and Archives, FYI:

   

(U) Documenting Your Contribution during the Iraqi Crisis

(U) From a historical perspective any support NSA provides to the Iraqi crisis is significant. All
efforts are important in accomplishing the NSA/CSS mission —— and all should be documented. In
most cases it takes only a few minutes to preserve a record of your contribution. Here are a few
tips on how to document your organization's role in this crisis.

(U) Records Management Officers (RMO) are the first line of defense for preserving all important
records depicting NSA's critical role in the Iraq crisis. RMOs should be able to provide advice on
what information must be preserved. For those especially difficult questions, the corporate
Records Management Program (RMP) office may be reached at_ or via e—mail at.

(U) Essentially, Federal Law mandates what a record is, and how (long) it should be saved.
However, our country is engaged in a war and NSA is playing a major role, therefore extra effort
should be put forth not only to ensure that all the information is preserved, but also that it is

complete and readily identifiable as war related for future researchers. The following are some
thoughts on what additional information might be saved:

0 (U) E—MAIL/ELECTRONIC BRIEFINGS (e.g., POWRPOINT): While some Agency
organizations have systems for preserving electronic information, yours may not. At the
very least, e—mails and briefings (in color) containing valuable and insightful information
pertaining to some facet of the war should be copied to paper, entered into the
organization's central filing system, and retained according to the Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS).

0 (U) Whether in normal operations or crises, several types of information often do not get
preserved; perhaps some changes should now be considered:

1. (U) Verbal directions: Quick notes about directions given during informal meetings
or via the telephone.

2. (U) The reasons for decisions: All too often, memorandums record who was at a
meeting and what the outcome was, but omit the reasoning behind decisions or
actions. Making a few comments about the reasons for a decision or activity can
be most helpful in both "lessons learned" studies and later historical analysis.

3. (U) Short summaries (or even anecdotes) about successes and failures: These can
be captured in e—mail, memoranda, or other formats which are then saved and
filed.

4. (U) Sometimes even seemingly mundane things —— such as manning schedules,
phone lists, SOP papers, and the like —— can be valuable later to the historian for
establishing identities, dates, and procedural matters.

(U) It is likely that senior people will be interviewed after—the—fact; however, they are not the
only ones making significant contributions. The names of all major players should be retained for
future reference. Assistance on oral history issues can be provided by the Center for Cryptologic
ﬁtory, which can be reached by phone at_ or via e—mail at_ or

@nsa.

