DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

S

   
   

(U) Introducing Carl Johnson as Assistant Deputy Director for
Customer Relationships

FROM: Carl Johnson
(Dateline 5 June)

I\\\ Run Date: 06/26/2003

(U//FOUO) I am honored, humbled, and pleased to have been
selected as the new Assistant Deputy Director for Customer
Relationships. — the newly named Deputy Director for
Customer Relationships, is currently completing the Foreign Service
Institute (FSI) Senior Seminar. We expect her to officially come on—
board in mid—July. In the meantime, I have been simultaneously 1.
learning all I can, and as quickly as I can, about the Customer
Relationships Directorate (CRD) and have been representing CRD's
interests and equities as the Acting Deputy Director for Customer 2.
Relationships.

§§ SERIES:
(U) Getting to Know the
SID Leadership Team

(U//FOUO) By way of introduction, my background falls entirely

within operations. I started my career working Russia but have

spent the bulk of my time working China and Korea. My most 3
recent position was as Chief of the Analysis and Production, China '
& Korea Product Line (S2B). In the former Directorate of

Operations (DO) Asia and Pacific organization (B Group), I served 4
as the B Group Executive Officer and in NSOC as a B (Group)

Senior Group Coordinator (BSGC). I also led the B Group Customer
Relations Division of the Staff. Along the way, I attended the Air

War College and Marine Corps Command and Staff College.

    

.3 "HO" echnim

Leader

. Introducing Carl
Johnson as Assistant
Deputy Director for
Customer
Relationships

5. Introducti' “

  

(U//FOUO) Since 19 May, my first full day on the job in CRD, I've
moved my office and established an office staff; and by the end of
June, I'll have toured the CRD spaces and met the workforce. I've
also attended the recent SID Leadership off—sites. These off—sites
have been invaluable for all of us, whether new to SID Leadership
or not. In this short period of time, we have not only gotten to
know each other on a personal basis but have also established the
basic precepts for making continual improvements in how we "take
care of business." Reaching this point of mutual understanding and
agreement would have taken several months of sandwiching
disjointed meetings between daily operational fire fighting. Whew —
all this in less than a month on the job!

(U//FOUO) I view CRD as the flash point for bringing the
customers (along with all their diverse needs and missions)
together with the SIGINT System (along with all its bureaucracies
and transformation growing pains) to create SIGINT successes for
the nation. Accomplishing this is a tricky business and seldom as
straightforward as much of the work done in the rest of SID. In
saying this, I'm not talking about the technical complexity of the
work. Instead, I'm talking about the difficulty of establishing and
maintaining the processes that effectively bring people together at
many levels — personally, organizationally, and technically — in an
ever—changing environment.

(U//FOUO) The team approach—— within CRD, throughout SID, and
indeed across the entire Intelligence Community—— is the only way
to go. Only through teaming and collaboration will we achieve
high—level successes across the board instead of uneven pockets of

