DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

RX I W (U) The Analyst Cockpit

      

FROM: _
Deputy Director or Analysis and Production

Run Date: 03/31/2003

(S//SI) You're an analyst. Every day you open up separate tools: email, the calendar, Anchory,
AMHS, and the SIRO Press Review. But what if you had one place you could go for all of it? What
if you could have a unified query of traffic, references, and open source information? Soon you
will, with the Analyst Cockpit.

(U//FOUO) What does the Analyst Cockpit look like, and how does it work? The Analyst Cockpit
screen is cleanly laid out. At the top are a few basic hyperlinks and a "Quick Lookup" search
engine. Below are the "portlets," or sections, with your profiled retrievals organized by
categories. There's also an event history (similar to that used by amazon.com), in case you
need to get back to something you've already looked at.

(S//SI) Tools (dictionaries, Anchory, SIRO Press Review, etc.) get hooked up to the cockpit.
Getting to the tools is easy; there's only one sign—on. When you log in, the system will first
authenticate you. Then the information YOU need will appear before you. What comes up on
your screen will be tailored, using portal technology, so that you won't have to do the extraction.
You simply customize your profile, and it does the rest. For example, as it is now, you might call
up the SIRO Press Review to see if there's any news on your target country. You then have to
scan the whole document to see if your country shows up. With the Analyst Cockpit, you'll only
see the section on your target. In addition, news on your target country will appear together in
one portlet from a variety of sources: the SIRO Press Review, Video News Service, Global
SIGINT Highlights, etc. Having these results all together will provide a more mission—driven
cockpit.

(TS//SI) Some other features of the Analyst Cockpit include:

0 Click and Send: This will provide "hooks" between two tools. For example, you can look
up a phone number, then update a database or task the number.

0 A Shopping Cart: You can save items to work on later. Customization/Personalization:
Customization is what you'll see based on your work role.

0 Personalization is your tailored view of how you want to see everything.

0 Freeform Work Area: This is a workspace where analysts can gather, analyze, and share
information.

(S//SI) This April, 28 users will begin testing the new Analyst Cockpit prototype. In September,
there will be 150 analysts testing it. This is a prototype, but it will form the basis for the real
version that you'll be able to use in the fall of 2004. If you'd like to see a demonstration, you

may register for any of the "Open Sessions" in April at: —

"(U//FOU0) SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet
without the consent of 50121 (Di. slid comms )."

 

DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL
DERIVED FROM: NSA/CSSM 1-52, DATED 08 JAN 2007 DECLASSIFY ON: 20320108

