DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS

TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

(U) The Collection Association (CA)

FROM: the CA
Unknown
Run Date: 05/22/2003

§\

 

(U//FOUO) The NSA Collection Association (CA) was established 26
years ago to serve NSA collection and associated interests by
providing Community—wide recognition and unique opportunities for
professional growth in collection and related disciplines. The
Collection Association membership has played a role in the many
successes of NSA at one point or another in their career. They tend
to care strongly about the collection field and work every day to
continue to learn, to improve, to research, to manage, to look at or
for new intelligence environments. They also work to pass on to
the neXt generation the knowledge that at times only comes with
years of eXperience——not from books—— to assist the future
collectors in upholding the high standards of the collection field.

(S//SI) Through the years, the role of the collector has evolved
from that of searching through the frequency spectrum with a
receiver with "line of sight" ground antennas to that of using
satellite receivers allowing collectors a larger area of coverage.
Many people still think of collectors as being the folks that "sit
rack", but the changing intelligence environment has provided
collectors a wide choice of areas to perform their skills. We still
have High Frequency (HF) environment collectors that "sit racks"
and "roll up on their targets" each day and identify their targets by
their operating characteristics or map a network of transmitters
within hours or days. But we now have engineers who go TDY to
set up equipment in the field and do surveys. Their official title
may be engineer, but when they collect data, for that moment,
they are a collector. Even the folks searching the Internet for
information, whether it is the written word, hidden message, etc.——
they are collectors when they search and pull information from the
web.

(U//FOUO) During its life, the CA has recognized several individuals
with yearly awards. These awards were established not only to
recognize outstanding collectors and collection managers yearly,
but to honor those individuals whose names identify the awards
and who played an integral role in the collection community, as
well as the Collection Association. The CA Awards that are
presented each year to deserving individuals are the Ardisana
Collector of the Year Award, the Thomas Mooney Collection
Manager of the Year, the William Hunt, Sr. Technical Literature
Award. In 1997, the team award named for Norbert H.
Syzmanowski, commonly known as "Ski Team Award", was created
and was presented for the first time in 1998. For more information
on these awards and a list of winners, check out our awards ‘ '

 

(U//FOUO) For further information on the Collection Association
and how to become a member, check out the Collection Association
web Dacge or contact any of the <23fficers or iVEer'nbEi‘s~at«i..ar‘ e . You
may also type "go ca" in Webworld.

 

\\\\
3\\\§ SERIES:
(U) NSA's Learned
Organizations

 

sociation (CA)
he CP'ZFtiitv

    

