DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

(U//FOUO) Data Flow Manager: The Data Fairy?
FROM:
and
Unknown
Run Date: 08/20/2003

(U//FOUO) Data flow in, data flow out - somehow it reaches my
 SERIES: 
desk. How does it get to my desk every day? Is there really a data
(U) A Day in the Life of...
fairy - the urban legend of the data flow career field? YES!!! What
data flow managers do is ofttimes perceived as magic by creating
order out of chaos and untangling the mysteries and complexities
1.  Office Manager:
of delivering SIGINT to the customers. There are many data flow
Jack-of-All-Trades
managers in SID. We reside in many areas, but CSRC (the
2.  The Life of An Exec
Collection Strategies and Requirements Center) has the bulk of this
3.  Working as a Policy
critical career field. Our job entails so many aspects, its hard to
Analyst: One
mention them all, but these data flow managers perform miracles
Person's Perspective
and feats of magic every day.
4.  Data Flow Manager:
The Data Fairy?
(C) The SID data flow manager (DFM) is someone who is well
5.  Mathematician: An
versed in many areas and is customer-oriented to ensure that the
Insider's View
customer/analyst has collected, processed and selected data
6.  NSA Linguists
available for analysis and reporting, whatever kind of analysis is
'Panning for Gold'
required, regardless of data type. When do you contact a DFM?
7.  Plenty of Action on
What role does the DFM play in SIGINT delivery? The DFM is
the Action Team
involved daily with:
8.  On The Collection
(Officer's) Plate
Ensuring that targeted/selected intercept is delivered to
9.  Sitting in the SOO's
you, 24/7;
Chair
Monitoring data flows to direct intercept appropriately;
10.  You Can't Keep the
Establishing and testing new data paths, formats and
NSC Waiting!.. A Day
processing capabilities;
in the Life of a
Discovering and resolving data corruption problems;
GRSOC Analyst
Interfacing with Second and Third Party Partners to receive
data for NSA analysts;
Briefing end-to-end data flow capabilities/threads to various
customers, internal and external;
Troubleshooting reasons for data loss and/or data surge;
and,
Ensuring that legal requirements are satisfied regarding the
processing and storage of traffic.
(U//FOUO) The daily jobs are diverse, as are the people in these
positions, throughout the SID. Backgrounds of DFM's vary from
computers, to cryptanalysis, collection, analysis, and
telecommunications. Many skills are required to be successful after all, not only does a DFM understand data, they comprehend
all the processing that is required to ensure that the collected
signal is successfully converted to data and intelligence. The DFM is
involved in all aspects of data flow - assisting in the development
aspects, current flow management and even archive retrievals. And
of course documenting all actions for posterity as well as Mission
Assurance!
(C) However, the most important job a SID Data Flow Manager has
is interacting with our customers. We are here to ensure current
mission data coming into our processors, flows in a timely manner
without corruption. We are here to establish new or enhanced data

flows within NSAW, Extended Enterprise, and Second or Third party
assets. We are here to be part of the resolution to problems as well
as prevent problems with new capabilities and deployments that
may or may not have been coordinated with us and our
downstream customers. We are everywhere.
(U//FOUO) Being a data flow manager is a hard, yet rewarding job.
We are helping to ensure that processed SIGINT is available now
and in the future. New technologies are daily challenges that are
being tackled successfully by the SID data flow managers. We
make a difference, not only for the current architecture, but also
for near-term and future SIGINT architectures.

"(U//FOUO) SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet
without the consent of S0121 (DL sid comms)."

DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL
DERIVED FROM: NSA/CSSM 1-52, DATED 08 JAN 2007 DECLASSIFY ON: 20320108


