DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

Run Date: 10/22/2003

Ix

 

(U) Note from SIGINT Communications: This is the first ofa two—
part article.

(U//FOUO) It took only one PCS and my husband announced that
he was officially a "field rat." This proclamation is even more
amazing given that our first PCS was to Misawa, Japan. We
completed four fabulous years in Misawa in May 2003 (yes, I said
"fabulous" and "Misawa" in the same sentence) and are now
stationed at Menwith Hill, in England. Misawa and Menwith Hill are
no doubt unique, but each has its advantages.

(U) Professional

(U//FOUO) By comparison, Misawa is a small site (fewer than 25
NSA civilians) while Menwith is a large site (several hundred NSA
civilians). Misawa offers the opportunity to take on added
responsibility well beyond grade expectations and to effect change
throughout the site. The advantage of a large site is the diversity of
the opportunities available, and Menwith is not lacking in its
breadth or depth of opportunities. As a computer scientist, there
are opportunities to develop operational or administrative software
solutions, tackle challenging problems in the emerging
development environment, work as a system engineer or project
manager, or lead teams of military, civilians and contractors doing
technology related jobs.

(U) Travel

(U) When it comes to travel (one of our passions), both locations
offer limitless possibilities that are as diverse as the professional
environments. Misawa and Menwith are both considered "remote",
Misawa being 450 miles from Tokyo and Menwith being 200 miles
from London, yet both locations are connected to their respective
capital by rail, air, and highway. The difference is in the cost and
availability of each.

(U) We found travel around Asia from Misawa to be expensive (the
cost of getting to and from Tokyo adds $300 per person to any
trip). Still, we vacationed in Guam, Alaska, Australia, Thailand,
Singapore, Malaysia and Hawaii (5 times and 4 islands)! Within
Japan, we visited Tokyo (too many times to count),
Hiroshima/Miyajima (2 times), Sapporo (2 times),
Kyoto/Osaka/Nara (I wish more than once), Hakodate City, Oga,
and Sendai/Matsushima. This does not include our frequent day
trips to sites and locations within a couple hours drive of Misawa.
We truly enjoyed the unique and exotic activities (snowshoeing),
sites (Big Buddha), sounds (flutes, cymbals and drums at the
Nebuta Festival), and smells (drying squid and seaweed).

(U) In our first 6 months in England, we have gotten off to a
relatively slow start as we have just driven to Edinburgh, northern

(U) Spanning The Globe...Misawa to Menwith Hill: Part 1

FROM: —
Software Deve opment Team Menwith Hill Station

\\\\
3\\\§ SERIES:

(U) SID Around the
World '03

1. ( am Hi: Soon: SID
und the, World?
.3 Around the

     
  

   

.. .3 Around the
World: ISGINT ir om

 

Worldzl .‘
Held
6. SID Around the
World: Washih ton
DC.

7. SID Around the
World: Peak
Conditions her are:

8. SID Around tl
World: The Rhee land

9. Spanning The
Globe...Misawa to
Menwith Hill: Part 1

10. S- remit The

     

 

 

  

    

. : Part L?
11. SID Arou 1d the
World: I‘ TDY

 

 

