DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

(U) SID's Interactions with Congress: Communications and Orgs

FROM: SIGINT Communications
Unknown
Run Date: 05/30/2003

§\

 

. . . . . _ “W
(U) This is the final article of our series. 3\\\§ SERIES:

U Communications (U) SID and Congress

 

(U) How Many Congressional Queries and Brieﬁngs Does SID LA 1
Handle Per Month? '

(U//FOUO) The number of queries from staffers varies. The busiest __,
months are typically March, April and May, because the staffers are 2- ~

reviewing the CBJB and preparing their budget mark ups. This
year, a total of 18, 40, and 23 RFIs were received during these

 

months, respectively. A large majority of the queries require a very 3.53:. _

quick turnaround during this time, and as it is LA's opportunity to 3- SIP 5 Interactions
influence the mark ups, these requests are given focused W'th COHQI’ESS-
attention. Communications and

(U//FOUO) Requests for briefings tend to be heaviest from Jan — 4-
May. Again, this is due to the fact that staffers are preparing for

their mark ups. This year, the number of staffer visits to SID

ranged from 12 to 16 per month during the period of March

through May. These visits often included multiple briefings.

 

(U) How Else Does SID LA Communicate With Congress?

(U//FOUO) In addition to budgeting issues, Congress is also
responsible for general oversight of NSA (and SID), to ensure we
are doing ourjob competently and adhering to the law. As a result,
we keep the Congress informed of significant developments that
may affect our performance (positively or negatively). A vehicle for
doing this is a "Congressional Notification". These range from "bad
news" reports—— such as power outages that have resulted in
degradation of service or security breaches at field stations—— to
items of interest such as:

the NSA Off—site Language Processing Facility;
Global Network Analyst Intern Program;
change in SID leadership; and

new partnerships with Third Parties.

As such, notifications are a great way to keep Congress informed of
good news as well as bad news. They should hear it from us before
they read it in the paper.

(U) How Does SID LA Communicate with the SID Workforce?

(U) Every Friday SID LA publishes a Weekly Congressional Update
providing feedback on recent congressional visits, highlighting
upcoming visits and congressional travel. This update can be found
on the SIZE} LA website . The updates are also available via the SID
Notes/Reports section of the SID Today homepage.

(U) Organizational Structure

