DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

RX I W (U) SID Leadership Transition: Passing the Baton

FROM: Maureen Baginski

v V Signals Intelligence Director
' aii

Run Date: 04/03/2003

 

(U//FOUO) Soon there will be a press report announcing my appointment as

the FBI's Director of Intelligence. I assume that post in May as an FBI

employee. The decision to accept the position was among the most
emotion—filled and difficult I've ever made. I feel blessed and deeply honored to be given an
opportunity to continue to serve the nation in this new capacity and to work with a team of great
Americans dedicated to protecting our homeland. I promise to work hard and do my best for you
and yours in this role, and always.

(U//FOUO) Timing is everything in life, and it's natural to question mine in making this decision.
I did. In the end, I decided that we don't always control the timing of opportunities to serve, and
since work is never truly "done," there is never really a "right" time to depart. General Hayden
will announce my successor in short order and I know that whoever is selected, he or she will be
in good hands—— those of the best SIGINT professionals in the world.

(C) We have accomplished wonderful things for the nation's SIGINT capability over the past 2
1/2 years. It's a universally held view that SIGINT has never been better and that's a tribute to
each and every one of you who make it work every single day, sometimes against incredible
odds. We all know that there's more work to do, but work doesn't bother us. What amazes me
and makes me proud is that we have become a team that does not feel defeated by the
difference between where we are and where we want to be, but rather gets energized by it and
uses it to spur us to action and success. And succeed we have. You have my deepest respect and
admiration today and always.

(C) Last week I had the opportunity to walk around in the wee hours of the morning and visit
the folks standing watch for Americans in harm's way in Iraq and around the world. That
experience was a gift that I will forever cherish. Everywhere I went, I saw what I expected——
ruthless focus on the task at hand. I also saw something I didn't expect that delighted me..it
was the look and feel of teamwork and empowered professionals with a quiet confidence in our
collective ability to get the job done. There wasn't one stop where folks didn't go out of their
way to describe the team they were part of that produced the superb results for customers.
Thank you all, not just for what you do, but the way you do it. We have changed to meet the
challenges of 21st Century SIGINT and our products and services have never been better. I've
never been prouder to be part of anything and I thank you all for the support and
encouragement you have given me along the way. I'll always remember it.

(U//FOUO) But just so you don't think I'm going all mushy on you, there's plenty more work to
do and there will be more bumps along the road. Please know that I will be cheering you along
as you create the future for SIGINT. You will have a great fan, a trusted partner, and a very
demanding customer at the FBI. 1 look forward to continuing our work together in defense of the
nation. It has truly been an honor to serve with you all.

"(U//FOU0) SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet
without the consent of 50121 (Di. Sid comms)."

 

DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

