DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

(U) Introduction to 

, Customer Relationships Director

FROM:
Deputy Director for Customer Relationships
Run Date: 08/01/2003

(U//FOUO) It's a great time to work in the Signals Intelligence
Directorate (SID). First of all, it's an opportunity to improve and
refine the new processes that have been put into place. Secondly,
it's a time to feel a sense of pride for the successes you've
achieved in providing tremendous support to our customers over
the past couple of years, although I realize you may find it difficult
to pause and savor success in light of the continuing high ops
tempo. I'm very honored to have been asked to lead Customer
Relationships Directorate (CRD), and I am looking forward to
working with my colleagues to build upon these successes.
(U//FOUO) I've spent much of my career working directly for
customers and with overseers -- in a Cryptologic Service Group
(CSG), as an NSA representative, on the staff of a customer
organization, in the Legislative Affairs Office, and recently with the
DoD and IC requirements boards and acquisition oversight
authorities. I've seen firsthand not only the value of building good
relationships but also the importance of providing products and
services to customers that meet their specific needs. NSA and SID
have made a strong commitment to customer service by investing
resources to better understand the intelligence needs of our
customers; to improve synchronization of activities across SID and
focus on hunting key information; and to use those customer
vectors to drive our investment, business, and, often, policy
decisions. While the new structures and processes within CRD to
help SID accomplish these objectives are still very immature, we
are getting better. More importantly, we are receiving positive
feedback from customers on this business model. We will continue
to develop, fine tune, and strengthen our efforts.
(U//FOUO) What's the role of leadership? Having a unified vision
and communicating it clearly is first and foremost. Aligning goals
and objectives, obtaining and allocating resources (corporately not
competitively), empowering people to fully use their skills and
talents, delegating responsibility, deciding how much risk is
acceptable, anticipating issues and problems so as to avoid some of
the speed bumps, and implementing good business processes are
also essential. During the past nine months, I participated in the
Foreign Service Institute Senior Seminar sponsored by the
Department of State. I had the opportunity to meet and discuss
issues with the most senior leaders in government, military,
education, religion, and industry. As we met with each person and
learned about their strategic goals and challenges, we also asked
about their philosophy of leadership and how to achieve
organizational success. Almost without exception, each one
mentioned the importance of integrity to success, both personal
and institutional. By institutional integrity, they meant
transparency and openness, honesty, professional respect, follow
through on commitments, and cooperation.
(U//FOUO) Each directorate has a unique role to play, but we are

 SERIES: 
(U) Getting to Know the
SID Leadership Team
1.  Coming Soon:
Getting to Know the
SID Leadership Team
2.  Introducing Jim
Allen, Incoming
Deputy Director for
Analysis and
Production
3.  Jack Israel, A&P;'s
Senior Technical
Leader
4.  Introducing Carl
Johnson as Assistant
Deputy Director for
Customer
Relationships
5.  Introduction to 
 Customer
Relationships
Director

also mutually dependent upon one another. I have great respect
for each member of the leadership team, and I look forward to
working with them to lead SID in a direction that serves you,
facilitates your work, and leads to our collective success.

"(U//FOUO) SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet
without the consent of S0121 (DL sid comms)."

DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL
DERIVED FROM: NSA/CSSM 1-52, DATED 08 JAN 2007 DECLASSIFY ON: 20320108


