DYNAMIC PAGE -- HIGHEST POSSIBLE CLASSIFICATION IS
TOP SECRET // SI / TK // REL TO USA AUS CAN GBR NZL

 

N

    

 

FROM: F
Acting C ie , Customer Gateway

Run Date: 04/16/2003

 

§\

(U//FOUO) During the coming days, we are proud to bring you a
series of articles focused on the Signals Intelligence Directorate's
customer interactions provided by the Customer Relationships
Directorate (CRD). We hope that this series engenders questions,
suggestions and interactions that will infuse SID's continued
transformation.

(S//SI) The core of our customer relationships is understanding
and meeting our customers' Information Needs. Those needs, as
you all know, are myriad. Working in the SID is a challenge since
meeting customer needs means defending the nation, supporting
the campaign against terrorism, and providing vital support to
warfighters under fire in Iraq and to the National Policy Makers who
must now engage in Iraq's reconstruction. Meeting customer needs
also means both maintaining coverage on other national SIGINT
priorities, such as the continuing crisis in North Korea, and
enduring strategic issues, such as Weapons of Mass Destruction.
That challenge is being met successfully today through hard work,
innovation, partnership, and Information Needs (IN) management,
all of which combine to produce cohesive, positive outcomes. That
coordinated effort will be demonstrated in our five—part series.

(S//SI) The war in Iraq has presented a prism through which we
have been able to view the effectiveness of our planning,
programs, and relationships. Central to our strategy are our efforts
to make customers more active participants in the SIGINT system
by giving them the ability to see into and influence USCS activities.
The neXt article in this series (i.e. the second) on the National
SIGINT Requirements Process (NSRP‘; will describe the orderly flow
of Information Needs during the war. In terms of success, you may
compare the present manageable flow of Information Needs to that
of the days, weeks, and months following 11 September 2001
when INs under the former RFI system increased by over 1,000
percent, threatening to overwhelm intelligence production.

(S//SI) CRD's strategic thinking and customer interaction are
aimed at a deeper understanding of customer needs. They are also
coupled with creativity and innovation to engender the interaction
of decision makers, warfighters and IC partners with SIGINT in new
ways——and sometimes with new customers. The third article will
showcase both new customers, like U.S. Northern Command
(NORTHCOM) and the Missile Defense Agency, as well as new ways
of interacting with major customers to deliver SIGINT into the
customers' information space that is secure, usable, accessible and
timely.

(S//SI) In the fourth article, you will have the opportunity to read
a Senior Executive Account Meme: er .“ M‘: perspective from US.

United Nations (USUN) SEAM q and her SEAM Team
who are the models of customer re ations ip management. The

SEAM Team has transformed that relationship from a transactional

    

(U) When Meeting Customer Needs Means Defending the Nation

\\\\
3\\\§ SERIES:

(U) Customer Relations

. When Meeting
Customer Needs
Means Defending the
Nation

 

W a z“

 

and E '
Fuc 3m

    

. A. Per.me..tive on the

   

NBA; USUN
e ' -

      

 

.. i... .. .orner
Feedback Work for
Eve r‘g 0 n 63,

